Equities are really looking for hope for
a resolution.
>> Panic buying more than panic selling.
>> The underlying shift to the US and a
reversal of last year's trade makes a
lot of sense here. We expect volatility
to continue.
>> In a six-month window, I can see a lot
of volatility.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Live from New York. This
is Bloomberg surveillance. Equity
traders trying to stay optimistic ahead
of President Trump's deadline for a deal
with Iran. The latest economic data
providing mixed signals showing ongoing
consumer demand, but rapidly rising
prices. Corporate executives perhaps
holding the key to more insight with
earning season just around the corner.
Delta kicking things off tomorrow. For
now, it is deadline day. Uh John and AMH
are still off. Danny Burgerer didn't run
away, which is a good and beautiful
thing for us here. She is back, which
I'm very happy about. Such an
interesting moment where everyone is
hamstrung by headlines that present a
lot of potential options that are pretty
negative. Yet stocks trying to look
through it. It's another day of trying
to figure out how you deal with such
extreme tail risk. And to your point,
what have stocks done? They've rallied
for the past four consecutive days. It's
the headlines that are alarming. Wall
Street Journal reporting that the two
sides, Iran and the US, still remain so
far apart. And Iran believes that the
attacks will continue regardless. Maybe
it's a market hoping for more
cankicking. There was an Axios report
that seemed to hint that maybe Trump
won't follow through on his threats, but
still it is a binary outcome. And how do
you prepare for that? If your stocks you
don't apparently you ignore it because
ultimately every single geopolitical
risk event has been a buying event and
that is what people are preconditioned
for and right now the economic data is
giving in some levels a green light.
Yesterday we got ISM services data uh
that came in kind of on a mixed level.
On one hand, you did see some fading in
some of the momentum that you had
previously seen. At the other hand, you
saw forward orders pick up to the
highest level going back three years.
Question about whether we're seeing
enough momentum to offset whatever might
come down the pike. It data as always is
a choose your own adventure, but you
could have looked at the ISMS and said
this feels kind of stagflationary.
To your point, un the employment picture
of it being challenged. prices paid
moves up to the highest since October
2022 and you see some of the weakening
come through. Are we going to get more
data like that? Maybe we need to start
thinking more stagflationary. At least
the bond market is starting to price
some of that in. We have had a big run
up in yields and add to that Beth
Hammock of the Cleveland Fed
reintroducing two-sided risk saying
maybe we'll cut, maybe we'll hike.
>> I love how market decides to listen to
the people who they want to listen to on
any given day. Beth Hammock has been a
perennial hawk and a lot of people are
saying okay rate hikes aren't
necessarily on the table and yet this is
what you see potentially under the hood
right now in markets what you do see is
a sense of perhaps calm amid a deadline
with some pretty bombastic language
around it up two ten of a percent on the
S&P futures after four straight days of
gains the longest streak of winds going
back to January this potentially could
take it to the longest this year you're
seeing a little bit of dollar softness
this is normal considering the risk on
feel given how much the dollar has
rallied 11563 on the euro and 10-year
yields 4.32%
just down a little bit even with
comments from Beth Hammock talking about
how you could potentially get some sort
of rate hike oil prices dipping just a
bit perhaps on that optimism that we
have seen coming up we've got Marvin Low
of State Street with stocks at their
longest winning streak since January
Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations with President Trump's Iran
deadline approaching and Kelsey Barrow
of JP Morgan on why the next inflation
data will keep investors on edge. We
begin this hour with our top story.
President Trump demanding Iran agree to
a deal to reopen the street of Ramuz by
8:00 p.m. tonight Eastern or have its
key infrastructure destroyed. Bloomer's
Jamai joins us now from Dubai. Jamanna,
you're on the ground there. We're
talking about how markets are fairly
complacent right now and looking trying
to look past this. What's the mood there
where you are?
>> Look, it's tense, Lisa. and uh rightly
so because this is the starkkest warning
yet that President Trump has issued
towards Iran uh with threats of
obliteration of civil infrastructure.
He's vowed to go after power plants,
after bridges. So, you know, these are
serious threats with very potential dire
consequences not just for Iran but for
the region as a whole because Iran have
pledged to retaliate and of course if
they do retaliate they would retaliate
on Gulf infrastructure and on Israel as
well. So the the potential repercussions
are actually huge if the US does follow
through on this military escalation. But
I will say that it appears as though in
the last 12 24 hours or so there has
been a huge diplomatic push from the
region. The mediators and of course
Pakistan have been spearheading those
efforts alongside Egypt and Turkey as
well putting out perhaps more
constructive comments uh suggesting that
the the the channels have been in
overdrive over the last 24 hours. Uh
Steve Wickoff himself was on a call with
the Egyptian foreign minister. some
positive signals as well coming through
from the Iranian ambassador to Pakistan
suggesting constructive discussions. So
there perhaps is still a glimmer of hope
that maybe we get a diplomatic
breakthrough or even a temporary truce
agreed by this deadline. But I should
also say that publicly the two sides are
still very very far apart. And as you
said, President Trump is insisting on a
full reopening of the strait
unconditionally. Iran, they've come back
with their counterpoints and they're
saying repeating some of the same points
as before, asurances that the war will
never happen again. But then also a new
element is that they are insisting on
the right of sovereignty over the
straits. And clearly that is a
non-starter for any negotiations to take
off. So still very far apart on the two
sides, but ultimately, you know, the
president has three choices here. He can
follow through on those threats in the
absence of a deal. we could get a
diplomatic breakthrough or the third
option is simply to push back the
deadline or move the ultimatum which is
something he's done before but of course
at the risk of an erosion of the US's
credibility. So we're heading into I
would say a very crucial 24 hours for
the region.
>> Jim Persace uh in Dubai. Thank you so
much as always for your wonderful
reporting. Here's a view on Wall Street
this morning. Marvin Lowe of State
Street writing, "Equities remain
relatively well supported and while
credit remains a concern, it has not
shown capitulation around the private
credit meltdown." Marvin joins us now.
Marvin, we were just hearing from
Jumanna about how tense it is in the
region. Before that, we were talking
about the seeming calm, if anything,
optimism in markets. How do you square
that dissonance of the potential stakes
that are heading into that 8:00 PM
deadline that seem to be brushed off by
markets?
Yeah, I mean um you know there certainly
is um a fundamental aspect of holding on
to if you will a somewhat positive bias
on the risk side of things. It's not as
if um all of your risk assets have
ignored everything. Um but certainly the
amount of downside has probably been
less than anyone would would have
expected. So um there is a degree of
looking past this. Um the timing of it
is questionable. Um, but from an
earnings perspective, as we kind of go
into earnings season, I was just looking
at where estimates were before we
started the conflict versus where we are
now, and they're actually up. So, um,
from a fundamental perspective, you
still have ultimately that support. It's
a few of the asset classes, the dollar,
um, the fixed income markets, which are
really kind of showing the potential
that not only this that this is longer
term, but that things might be different
once everything settles down. Marvin, if
I'm not mistaken, the reason that
earnings estimates have been rising just
in recent weeks is because of energy
stocks, because of the oil majors and
what's happening with the conflict. So,
what does it take to maybe look past
some of that and for equity markets to
start to price in longer term pain and
more sustained energy prices that the
likes of which we're starting to see get
priced in to your point to rate markets
and oil? Yeah, I mean I you know for you
know unfortunately I think that um at
least when it comes to a lot of the more
global u equity markets if you will um
the more international S&P if focused
type of companies it's going to take a
broad slowdown and that that isn't
necessarily making its way into the
commentary at this point. Certainly
recessionary risk inflation is something
that shows up occasionally within the
numbers. Um but it's not um prevalent in
a broad slowing of global growth and I
think that that's what it would take to
really knock it knock it off.
>> If we do get some slowing but not broad
enough to not knock everything off.
Marvin, do you expect the S&P to
coalesce around the typical market
leadership that we've seen in other
similar periods that is big tech?
>> Yeah. Yeah. and and um you know outside
of energy when we talk about big tech
they were the second best performing
sector industry group um you know since
um the beginning of the conflict but
also um on this on this uh upward bias.
So yes, there is that coalescing around
it and um based on the data that we see
within our uh flows of institutional
investors um there is a reordering going
back into maybe some of the more beatup
tech sectors um particularly as of late
>> and Marva this comes on the equity side
but also on the debt side and we saw
yesterday this Microsoft tied data
center deal bond offering investment
grade get sold and actually attracting
an incredible volume of bids to try to
get in on
capital markets seem wide open to a lot
of projects that people seemed concerned
about just a couple of months ago. How
do you again square that with apparent
risk aversion in other pockets of the
market?
>> Yeah. I mean, so um you know, this
credit um story is evolving. Um you
know, nobody on television knows the
credit world as well as you, Lisa. So,
it's really a function of whether or not
the liquidity exists out there. And
certainly for these large names, that
liquidity is out there. There have been
days that um you know I really didn't
think we were going to see in the credit
market where it closed for a few days it
really looked shaky and then once it
opened we had you know nearly hundred
billion dollars in deals being sold.
That shows that there's a lot of
liquidity. On the other side of that
certainly is the private credit
discussion which is still uh somewhat
fragile but um at this point there are
large inst institutional investors that
are in that space getting compensated
for the risk and we're still if you will
debating whether or not this is
liquidity issue um particularly around
maybe some of these less liquid products
that um uh is the flagship in the in the
private credit world uh versus a credit
issue and and it's opaque and uh it kind
of keeps us guessing. Because of that,
>> the common thought on Wall Street or
certainly among private credit
executives when they talk in public or
frankly even in private is it probably
will be okay on a fundamental level as
not as long as there isn't some sort of
economic downturn as long as there isn't
really a test of the credit cycle which
hasn't been had frankly going back
almost 20 years, right? How concerned
are you that this kind of stlflationary
hit to the economy could expedite that
kind of credit cycle that really hasn't
come to fruition since 2008?
>> I mean, I'm concerned about it. I
wouldn't say that um I'm one of those
that is comparing it back to the GFC, if
you will. I think dynamics are very very
um they're significantly different. Um
and really kind of that broad liquidity
that uh seems to be prevalent both in
the equity and the fixed income markets
is one that will you know uh for better
for worse keep valuations potentially
not adjusting as quickly as maybe they
should.
>> Marvin Low of State Street, thank you so
much for being with us as always.
Wonderful to see you. Have a wonderful
uh rest of the week. I mean this is sort
of the question Danny, right? Are we
just overplaying this? And does
everybody just want something to talk
about other than deadlines or is there
something seriously problematic
percolating under the surface of private
credit?
>> It could be both, but I think to your
point, it's a really good one because
private credit should reflect what other
risk markets are doing, too. If private
credit has a problem, then probably
leverage loans has a problem. It's a
point that actually Mark Lip Schultz of
Blue Owl has made to me before that
because credit is higher up on the
capital stack, if you're really worried
about private credit, then you should
probably be worried about equities as
well. And we're not seeing that
evenness.
>> Yeah. At all. In fact, you saw spreads
on corporate bonds both in the high
yield and investment grade space dropped
to the lowest since early March. Right
now, we're going to get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your bloomer brief with Yahira Antihira.
>> Good morning, Lisa. President Donald
Trump insisting Iran open the Straight
of Hormuz as part of a deal to end the
war. The president saying if there is no
deal by 8:00 p.m. tonight, the US
military could destroy key Iranian
infrastructure, including power plants
and bridges.
President Trump considering seizing
seizing control of Iran's oil uh sector.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that Trump believes controlling Iran's
energy flows could bolster his
bargaining power with Chinese President
Xiinping.
And Israel is telling Iranians to
refrain from using their country's
railway network until 9:00 p.m. local
time. In a statement on X, the IDF said
people's presence near trains and
railway lines, quotes, puts your lives
in danger. Israel usually issues such
warnings before a planned attack. 9:00
p.m. local time in Iran is 1:30 p.m.
Eastern. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Lisa, thank you so much. Yahira, up
next, an ultimatum for Iran. We're
giving them till tomorrow 8:00 Eastern
time and after that they're going to
have no bridges. They're going to have
no power plants. The entire country can
be taken out in one night and that night
might be tomorrow night.
>> Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations joins next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Another
day, another deadline and markets trying
to look past it and look to the good
news that they're getting from companies
that are expecting earnings to increase.
You're seeing equity markets inflecting
higher yet again. This would be a fifth
straight trading day of gains which
would make it the longest streak going
back to earlier this year up to ten of a
percent on S&P futures. You are seeing
again that risk on feel bleed into
dollar softness 11562 with the euro
gaining and the 10-year yield inflecting
lower almost a basis point 4.32%
on risk on days. This is what Brent
crude's doing. It is down. That is a
good sign for a lot of people who would
like to see that risk premium taken out
of the market down a ten of a percent to
108.885. Under surveillance this
morning, an ultimatum for Iran.
We're giving them till tomorrow 8:00
Eastern time. And after that, they're
going to have no bridges. They're going
to have no power plants. Every bridge in
Iran will be decimated by 12:00 tomorrow
night. where every power plant in Iran
will be out of business. The entire
country can be taken out in one night.
And that night might be tomorrow night.
>> Here's the latest. Less than 14 hours
until President Trump's 8 p.m. deadline
for Iran. Trump vowing attacks on
bridges and power plants if a deal is
not reached. Joining us now, Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall from Washington. Tyler,
hi.
>> Hi, Lisa. Good morning. Well, President
Trump yesterday outlined that an
acceptable deal, in his words, needs to
include freedom of navigation through
the straight of Hermuz. And that
actually gave us a little bit more
clarity as to what this White House
needs to see in any potential short-term
deal. After last week, it appeared that
the administration had suggested that
that may not be required in a potential
ceasefire. President Trump really put
the weight on Iran in his remarks
yesterday, saying that what the country
does today will determine whether the US
is winding up or escalating operations
tonight. And our own analysts at
Bloomberg Economics say they think an
escalation at this point is more likely
than ongoing negotiations because their
base case remains that we are going to
see a sharp uptick in the fighting
before what they call a low inensity war
becomes sustained. Now, the president
could of course again delay his threat
considering yesterday he did say that he
feels that Iran is negotiating in good
faith and that he actually felt that
Iranian leaders uh weren't able to
communicate effectively with the US over
security concerns saying that's part of
why he issued these deferrals before.
Still, he maintained that it is quote
highly unlikely we will see another
delay as Iran at least publicly has
maintained its hardline stance yesterday
through Iranian state media rejecting a
proposed ceasefire, issuing its own 10
points of demands, many of which are
considered non-starters by the US and
continuing to threaten Gulf state energy
sites. Now, Lisa, in the latest sign
that preparations are underway for a
potential escalation, Bloomberg News is
now reporting that Israel has warned
Iranians to stay away from their
country's railway network. This is the
first such threat that has been issued
since the war began against Iran's rail
infrastructure.
>> Bler Kendall, thank you so much for
that. Steven Cook on the Council of
Foreign Relations writing, "Miation is
at a dead end. Iran has no reason to
give up control of the street. The
Iranians believe they are winning."
Steven joins us now from more. Stephen,
always wonderful to have you on the
show. I'm just wondering how likely you
think escalation is by 8:00 p.m.
tonight.
>> Well, I think it's quite likely. The
gulf between the United States in Iran
is very, very large. Uh the president
has said that the Iranians have to open
the straight, give up their nuclear
weapons, give up what remains of their
missile program, and end their support
for proxies. At this point, the IRGC
leadership doesn't believe that it uh
needs to do any of those things,
particularly when it comes to the Strait
of Hermuz, something that gives him far
more leverage now than before even the
war began in late February.
>> What can escalation actually look like
given the fact that there's a lot of
pressure from the GCC nations on the
United States not to attack some of the
critical infrastructure that could
potentially engender uh retaliation the
likes of which they've already seen.
Yeah, the GCC states have said that they
want the president to finish the job,
but they are very very concerned about
the Iranian ability to strike back at
their own energy infrastructure, their
desalinization plants. These are
essentially citystates with the
exception of Saudi Arabia that depend on
this kind of uh infrastructure
desalinization plants for fresh water
for uh large and growing populations uh
to uh attack for the Iranians to attack
them would be devastating. So I think
that the president is poised to escalate
um and he is seems at least publicly to
be ignoring these concerns by
threatening uh Iran's civilian
infrastructure as well. It could get
very ugly for the Gulf States. However,
>> Stephen, in the meantime, you point out
that there's a new regime for passage
through the Strait of Hormuse. What does
that look like?
>> Well, the Iranian leadership has uh
successfully closed the straight or at
least partially closed the straight. And
now governments are appealing to the
Iranians to allow their flag tankers and
other ships to go through. Uh most
recently, the Japanese have reached out
to the Iranians to see if they can make
some sort of deal. The Filipinos have
done the same. the Indians have done uh
have done that as well. This gives the
Iranians leverage over the strait that
they never had before. There has been uh
the Turks have floated the idea of an
international consortium to manage the
strait which would include Iran. Um this
implies some sort of tolling mechanism
like you have with the Suez Canal. Um
this gives the Iranians power that they
never had before. Stephen, does it seem
like the US would be part of that those
conversations? Because at the moment, as
you lay out, Japan, Turkey, the nations
reaching out seem to be excluding that
of the US. You even had Emanuel Mcronone
talking over the weekend about teaming
up with Middle Nations to counter some
of the US power. Is it possible that we
get a new regime through the Strait of
Hormuse that excludes any say from the
US? Well, to the extent that the
Iranians have the most say, as they do
right now, it would exclude the United
States uh ostensibly under some
multilateral mechanism, no country would
be excluded from uh passage through the
strait, although uh revenues from it
would acrue to the benefit of the
Iranians. Uh you'll point out I'll point
out that yesterday during his press
conference, the president said that he
would be interested in tolling the
straight of Hormuz as long as the tolls
went to the United States. I'm struck by
uh the scenario that you're painting and
frankly all the geopolitical strategists
and commodity strategists we have on the
show who paint a pretty dire backdrop uh
without really a clean answer or exit to
the conflict that we're seeing right
now. And then I look at markets that are
trying to look through it. I I think
about people come on and they say it'll
be over. It'll be in the rear view
mirror come September or October. Can
you square the spread there and
understand exactly why this mismatch in
sentiment?
>> I think the idea that we'll be beyond
this uh relatively soon is purely
speculative speculative. Uh there is a
reason why five or six previous
presidents have been uh shown the war
plans for Iran have decided not to do
that have either sought negotiations or
containment and deterrence. Uh the fact
that the Iranians have closed the
straight of Ham shouldn't have been a
surprise to anybody. This is the first
thing that they do. This is a regime
that has its back against the wall that
the president has threatened to bring
down. So I think that the Iranians to
the extent that they can will have fight
left in them will continue to fight. Um,
and which is one of the reasons why the
GCC states have said to the president
not to end the war prematurely because
they don't want to live in a situation
in which the Iranians control the
straight of Hormuz and can threaten them
physically with their drones and
missiles. I don't think it's going to
end very soon unless the president
declares a victory and goes home.
>> Stephen, what's a good outcome for the
United States, for the GCC nations?
Well, I think a good outcome for the
United States and the GCC states is
cracking open the the the straight of
Hormuz so that freedom of navigation is
reestablished and that the Iranians are
unable to project their power beyond
their borders. That has become an
increasingly tall order uh for the
United States. I think that the the
president went into this thinking this
would be a matter of weeks. Uh and it is
turning out to be a much uh bigger uh
more involved, more complicated military
operation than he ever imagined.
>> Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations. Thank you so much. Always
wonderful to get your insights. Denny, I
mean, this is the issue when we talk to
people who uh are looking at what's
transpiring on the ground. They're not
really expressing the same confidence
that we're hearing from a lot of equity
strategists.
>> Certainly not. And you can hear it in
what Steven is saying that the leverage
that the Iranians have is the straight
of Hormuse. And now that's where Trump
has put the goalpost. That that needs to
be reopened. How do you cross that
bridge? How do you narrow that gap? It
seems increasingly difficult. And again,
we have a big deadline tonight, 8:00
p.m. Eastern. And how do you price that
in? And it seems like we're not. Well,
right now you are seeing some uh oil
tankers get through which maybe people
are finding this as posit uh as a
positive development. Coming up, we'll
get more on the oil market. Nadia Martin
Wigan of Steeland Capital with oil
markets watching this very closely.
Plus, you hire on it with your morning
movers. Health insurers getting a boost
from President Trump's Medicare
decision. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Markets are on tender hooks awaiting
that 8:00 p.m. deadline tonight that
President Trump set to come to a deal
with Iran or potentially escalate uh the
conflict. What we're seeing in markets
right now, we did just get a headline
that does seem to be moving things
around from the mayor news agency, the
semiofficial news agency of Iran coming
out saying explosions have been heard on
Car Island. The markets responding uh to
this. We're seeing a retracement of some
of the earlier optimism in S&P futures.
Danny Brent crude up by 7/10en of a
percent as people assess whether this
means some sort of escalation has begun.
>> It is the fog of war and what makes this
so difficult to trade in. We already
heard earlier this morning that Israel
had warned Iranians to stay away from
the rail infrastructure by 9:00 p.m.
local time until then, which is 1:30 ET.
So, I think there is concerns. Is there
escalation happening here and now? But
it also represents why the Iranians seem
to be hesitant to reach any type of
deal. The Wall Street Journal reporting
suggesting this morning that they see
attacks regardless, that they see
themselves in war. So why would they
agree to a ceasefire when to them it
appears that the US will attack them
regardless? The market response
interesting in the New York pop both in
oil prices as well as in two-year bond
yields. You can see yields twos, tens,
and 30s had been lower. Now inflecting
higher on the heels of this with a real
question about what this means in terms
of forward-looking policy and the
inflationary read through key inflation
data on deck later this week. 3 hours
away from the cash open. Here are your
morning movers. Let's head over to
Yahara. Dehyra.
>> Hi Lisa. Hard pivot to health insurance
stocks. They are rising in the
pre-market on some good news out of
Washington with the government's coming
through with a better Medicare update
than expected raising payment rates uh
to 2.5% meaning uh $13 billion will flow
back into the industry and most
importantly it is a step up from the
initial rates proposed back in January
which were about flat. So you are seeing
uh some some real relief coming through
with stocks like Humanana up 10 and a
half%. Uh we are also seeing shares of
Broadcom and uh Google rising in the
pre-market after Broadcom locked in a
major deal with Google agreeing to
develop and supply Google's customuilt
AI chips or TPUs uh along with the
networking behind those systems and the
AI startup Anthropic is set to tap into
that capacity as all three expand their
partnership. And we end on um shares of
Universal Music over in Amsterdam,
rising 11 12% on a takeover pitch by
Bill Aman that could revalue the company
at an 80% premium. But we are trading
well below those levels, reflecting some
investor skepticism about whether the
deal can get done and whether Aman can
win over UMG's biggest shareholder, the
French media mogul, Vincent Bolair.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Chihira on our radar
this morning. Iran launching fresh
attacks on Gulf nations just hours ahead
of President Trump's deadline to reach a
deal. The president vowing to destroy
Iranian power plants and bridges if
there's no agreement by 8:00 p.m.
Eastern. Elsewhere, Cleveland Fed
President Beth Hammock saying a rate
hike could be appropriate if inflation
remains above the central bank's 2%
target. Coming up at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.
Do not miss this. Our own Michael McKe
sits down with New York Fed President
John Williams, one of the trio who
really sits at the helm at the top of
the Federal Reserve. And a Goldman Sachs
private credit fund seeing first quarter
redemptions hit nearly 5% but just under
that key 5% level, narrowly dodging the
limit that forced rivals to freeze
withdrawals. Goldman crediting its
stability to its reliance on
institutional capital rather than retail
investors. Danny, you have been
reporting on this. You've been doing a
great job. a question of is this a tale
of the halves the have nots within
private credit and how do they
distinguish themselves as being on the
better half of the end.
>> First of all, let me say of course
Goldman put in their filings it was like
4.99999.
They're like we're getting every decimal
point in there to show we didn't hit the
5%. But I I've spoken with VC Bentwall
who runs this fund at Goldman and he
said to me that they had been very clear
from to clients from the get-go these
aren't semi-liquid they're illquid full
stop. He said that that's how they had
been marketing it. They also didn't
really go to the RAIA crowd, which a lot
of people have gone. So maybe this is
them insisting we have a stickier client
base because of how we advertise this
thing. But this gets down to the
argument, what is the issue here? Is
this an issue of communication? Is it an
issue of how you told clients what these
are in education? Or is it a problem
with the underlying asset class itself?
>> And that's the reason why each story of
caps or gates put on funds is slightly
different. You've got the Blue Owls of
the world. You've got the Cliffwaters of
the world. You've got the Bearings Fund
that came out yesterday. You've got
Goldman Sachs. You've got Apollo and
Aries all having the same issue of
investors who had been running headlong
into the private credit space for years
without any kind of uh you know
consequence other than great returns
suddenly rethinking what kind of returns
they could be looking at. And I think
that everyone's trying to get a piece of
how to message this at a time where
messaging matters because of those
redemptions. The the irony is is that a
lot of people who are running these
funds have said this is going to be such
a good vintage that this is such a good
time to be investing because one there's
less competition because you see some of
these funds the blue owls of the world
start to get these jitters and two banks
aren't as present in debt as well
because of some of the issues they've
had in offloading it. So those who can
participate say golden men among them
say it's a great time to be deploying.
Yeah, consolidation of the winners seems
to be what a lot of people are looking
for on the back end of this as long as
we know what this actually is. Let's
turn back to our top story story. Oil
holding firmly above triple digits ahead
of President Trump's 8mm deadline to
reach a deal with Iran. Trump insisting
Iran open up the straight of as part of
any ceasefire agreement.
>> We have to have a deal that's acceptable
to me. And part of that deal is going to
be we want free traffic of oil and
everything else.
>> Nadia Martin Vigan of Spelon Capital
writing markets are showing that they do
not expect President Trump to escalate
escalate but a real peace deal is not
ready or likely at this point. Nadia
joins us now. Nadia, thank you so much
for being with us. What is the outcome
that the market is currently pricing in?
Right now, the market is expecting a
soft off-ramp, meaning that critical
infrastructure in Iran is not going to
be hit and critical infrastructure in
the GCC countries is not going to be hit
after tonight's deadline. So, that's the
expectation. And we can see that markets
are, you know, they're they're staying
relatively calm when we just had a
serious strike on on Russian uh oil
infrastructure occurring in the last uh
24 to 36 hours.
>> And we got more reports uh this morning
that we're looking for more information
on from Iran state affiliated media
mayor saying that explosions were heard
on K Island. So clearly the conflict
does continue. There is a sense that
maybe some oil tankers are actually
getting through the straight whether
it's coming through agreements with
certain nations directly made with Iran
and this is treated as a good thing in
oil markets. How do you evaluate the
trickle that's getting through the
street of Hermuz right now?
So the first thing is which ships are
getting in are getting through and they
have been primarily flagged by India,
Iraq, the latest tanker that's carrying
Iraqi crude that is historically carried
Russian crude, which means it counts as
part of the shadow dark fleet and is not
what is commercially available across
Europe uh and the US. And this is really
a trickle of a few ships getting
through. We've had, you know, three LPG
vessels get through that were India
flagged. But when we compare that to the
23 million barrels per day uh of oil and
products that was flowing through Hermuz
uh the last week of February, this is
really nothing. I think it's very
important to understand these bilateral
deals are on a one-on-one basis. And as
Trump has stated last night, it's not a
normalization. It does not mean that
there is control of the street of Hermus
by the US.
>> Nadia, could there be a situation where
bilateral negotiations are enough not to
completely undo the rise that we've seen
in oil prices, but are enough to make it
acceptable for the world and and what
would that level be?
Well, if we started to see quite a lot
flowing through on a bilateral basis, it
would still completely change the way we
calculate the risks of buying oil out of
the Middle East and through the straight
of Hermuse because it would be very much
based on a bilateral relationship
instead of an international system that
has existed in the past. And this is
where for the GCC countries, it's not a
good deal. Uh because they are subject
to a regime that is not really a fair
market player from what we've seen uh
so far. Um what we've gotten more oil
out of is the workaround. So that's
flowing out of the port of Fujara,
that's flowing out of the port of Yanbu,
but it's not the 7 million barrels per
day headline figure flowing out of the
port of H um Yanvu uh to the rest of the
world. It's 3 to four million barrels
per day because it's complicated to
actually travel through the Red Sea. We
have the Houthis coming back on board.
That infrastructure is at risk. we could
have that pipeline struck very directly
by the Houthis and it would completely
change that risk calculus. So that's
where having um Iran remain in charge of
the straight of Hormuz would not be
enough uh to normalize the shipping
industry at all in our view
>> and Asia Europe feeling the large extent
of the pain. Nadia just moments ago a
European Commissioner spokesperson was
giving a press conference in Brussels.
They expressed that there should be
maximum restraint in Iran by the United
States and Israel. But among the things
that spokesperson said was that there
are measures on energy prices that need
to be coordinated and that the EU is
working on a toolbox to lower energy
prices. Nadia, what could a toolbox look
like for something of this nature?
>> Well, it's um probably more on an
internal basis, right? And what we've
seen is we've had um in Europe already
some some taxes cut uh on diesel for
example to help on a retail level. There
has to be coordinated buying in terms of
h having the workaround but at the same
time you know it hasn't been coordinated
up to now. So the US for example they
stopped sanctioning Russian crude and
ships but Europe has not. As a result,
it means that Russian crude is not part
of that normalized market. So, a
coordinated response with uh the
Iranians or with the GCC, you know, that
hasn't really been in the negotiations
thus far. The negotiations have been
between Iran and the US. The GCC have
not been uh invited and Israel has not
really been invited. So this is where
Europe will try to work together as a
buying power because they are subject as
a marginal buyer of LG and a lot of this
crude um to taking a market price. Um we
we also have the advantage in Europe of
being a shorter sailing distance from
the US, from uh Africa, from the North
Sea. So therefore, we can wait to buy a
few days, a few weeks rather than Asia
that has to book cargos 30 to 40 days in
advance to know where that crude is
coming from and that's where the
coordination has to happen.
>> Nadia Martin Wigan of Capital, thank you
so much for being with us as we track
the ongoing events. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's a blooper brief with
Yahara. Yahara.
>> Hi, Lisa. Morgan Stanley is planning to
debut a new credit fund despite concerns
surrounding the sector. The fund will
invest predominantly in private credit
and include a wide spectrum of credit
strategies. The bank plans to allow
redemptions of up to 5% every quarter.
Meanwhile, we are seeing Broadcom shares
rising 3.3% in the pre-market. The
company announcing a long-term agreement
with Google to develop and supply its
customuilt AI chips or TPUs. The
company's also confirming plans to work
with Anthropic.
And a NASA crew of four astronauts
making history, traveling farther from
Earth than any other humans. The
milestone of over 252,000 miles,
surpassing that set by the 1970 Apollo
13 mission. The astronauts also traveled
closer to the moon than anyone in more
than 50 years. Dr. Bloomberg, Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yah. I had dark side
of the moon in my head all last night
when I was reading about how they saw
the dark side of the moon and I was
thinking, "Wow, Pig Floyd must be really
proud."
>> They must be really proud and it's it's
the story we need right now. I'm so
happy that this is going on something
uplifting.
>> Completely agree. Up next, uh not that
unfortunately rising inflationary risks.
You could probably get headline CPI uh
approaching 5% um just by April. But the
key really for us and I think the
markets is that it is temporary and that
it starts to ease as the year
progresses.
>> Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management joins next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
The full sense of calm shaken just a
touch around the edges as the session
grows older after reports of an
explosion on Car Island from Iranian
state media. What you can see is that
stocks had been futures had been higher
ahead of that. Now they're lower by
310en of a percent on S&P. gold uh
inflecting higher after a pretty rough
run of it over the past couple of weeks
during forced selling from a lot of
central banks. Now, a number of
investors heading back to the precious
metal as a haven in a time of turmoil up
210 of a percent. 10-year yields now
higher after being lower earlier in the
session up a basis point to 4.34%
and Brent higher 7/10en of a percent to
11056.
Under surveillance this morning, rising
inflationary risks.
you could probably get headline CPI uh
approaching 5% um just by April. But the
key really for us and I think the
markets is that it is temporary and that
it starts to ease as the year
progresses. We'll see how things play
out right with oil and gasoline prices.
But you know, no doubt this is a big hit
um to consumers and households and
businesses.
>> Here's the latest key inflation data
ahead with core PCE Thursday and CPI
Friday. Economists expecting the
sharpest one-mon spike in consumer
prices since 2022. Kelsey Barrow of JP
Morgan Asset Management writing, "The
data poses risks that could keep
investors on edge. The divergence
between PCE and CPI is also likely to
spur more questions." Kelsey joins us
now. Kelsey, always wonderful to see
you. There's a sense we're already
getting that the inflation component of
ISM services rose the most going back to
2022. We have seen similar moves like
this when it comes to ISM manufacturing.
Why has that not shaken markets more
significantly?
>> Well, we have experienced a supply shock
that was different uh but in some ways
similar just a year ago uh with the
tariff wars where you saw a similar mix
of risks to higher inflation but also to
weaker employment. So you highlighted in
the ISOM services report yesterday the
spike in prices paid. There was also a
fall in employment to the lowest levels
I think since December of 2023. So we're
seeing the risks manifest themselves on
both sides. Um but again I would say the
market is being very uh calm about this
whole situation and I think the best way
to look at that is to look at the oil
VIX. The oil VIX is at its highest level
since 2008 or 2020. Uh and then you look
at the rest of the market credit spreads
or forward inflation expectations and
they've completely diverged. So you have
one market, the oil market that is
ringing significant alarm bells saying
this is a serious situation, one that we
have not experienced before, that is
different than than uh last year, that
is different than 2022. But then you
have the rest of the market that is uh
really uh taking all of this uh with
with stride at this point.
>> Does this gap have to be reconciled or
can two things be true at the same time?
Can this market chew and chew gum and
walk at the same time? Essentially have
a sense of geopolitical
dis
concern while at the same time seeing
really good earnings, seeing the AI
story raise productivity and an
otherwise robust economy heading into
this that can take a hit while still
growing.
>> I do think that this needs to be
reconciled in some way. And of course,
the easiest way the way that the the
market is currently positioned for it to
happen is that the oil VIX comes down.
that this is a situation that doesn't
last forever. Um, and ultimately
corporate fundamentals are generally
unchanged as a result of this. There is
maybe a a hit to margins, but you know
margins are very high within corporate
America and they can take that um and
the input cost in increase is something
that is manageable and we move on. Now,
of course, the risk is that the oil VIX
is is telling us something that the
other markets haven't appreciated, which
is financial conditions really haven't
tightened that significantly on the back
of this conflict. Credit spreads are
still very narrow relative to history.
And I think the only part of the market
that has significantly repriced is the
rates market where you've seen uh Fed
pricing flip from pricing in cuts to
pricing in hikes. And and that's
actually the area where I think that
there's the most room for opportunity
because if the oil VIX is right and this
is a bigger risk than the markets are
appreciating, then we actually think
that uh the the next move for the Fed is
is a cut rather than a hike. Um and that
really isn't priced into uh the rates
market today.
>> Wait, sorry. So it the next likely move
is a cut because of the growth concerns
then. But how bad would it need to get
because they'll have this dual fear of
rising inflation with Beth Beth Hammock
pointed to today saying maybe we'll need
to hike that if inflation does continue
to tick up. So just how bad does it get
for the Fed to decide that we're going
to cut into this regardless of fears of
an inflationary shock?
>> Yeah, I would focus uh less on how bad
the growth data is is going to be and
more about uh what the in inflationary
backdrop is. Does this remain a supply
driven inflation shock or does it morph
into something that is more uh
sustainable? So where would we be wrong
in terms of expecting the next move to
be a cut? One, if we start to see wage
growth start to reacelerate. So that was
the difference in 2022 is you had an oil
shock, you had an inflation shock, but
it was as much demandled as it was
supplyled. And the other thing that's
very different between 2022 and today uh
is the way that the inflation market is
reacting. So you have inflation swaps.
The one-year inflation swap rate has
repriced about a 100 basis points
higher. The one-year one-year inflation
rate, so the in one-year inflation rate
in one year's time is essentially flat.
And the 5year 5-year inflation rate is
moving lower. That is a very different
situation than what you had in 2022 when
it was a demandside inflation story. You
had forward inflation expectations
moving higher with the the front part of
the inflation curve. That's not what
we're seeing today. So if if you want to
look for the risk that you know Beth
Hammock is is highlighting that the next
move is a hike, look to see any shifts
in terms of the inflation swap market
and how it's behaving. The other thing
that's very different from 2022, and
this is what you were getting at as
well, Lisa, is the amount of debt being
put in this corporate bond market from
the hyperscalers. Robert Schiffman over
at Bloomberg Intelligence basically
said, "Oh, this fear that there are too
many bonds." Well, how overs subscribed
Amazon is shows that actually there is
not enough in this market. Do you expect
that dynamic to continue even if we do
start to see some more inflation get
priced in and we get concerns that you
know the bond the oil market rather that
the oil VIX is correct?
>> Yeah, I mean we do expect the demand for
the hyperscalers you know in a stable
macroeconomic environment to remain very
robust and our our investment grade
credit team has really got this I think
spot on in terms of seeing the value in
these names. They're very high quality
uh but they're being priced with a
discount because there is this uh
increase in supply that uh originally I
think the bond market was a little
worried about how this would be handled
and it's been taken down great and in
fact for the investment grade credit
market a stable Fed policy regime now of
course you know the fact that the Fed is
staying on hold right now is a function
of something that's pretty uncertain but
in general when the Fed is on bold and
the policy rate is stable, particularly
at the levels that we're at right now,
which are are still fairly high relative
to history, that's actually a very good
environment for investment grade credit.
And while the flows have been a bit more
mixed more recently, there is continued
steady demand particularly from uh
sources like insurance uh that are
seeing these starting yields uh within
the corporate credit market looking at
the fundamentals and continuing to buy
uh consistently throughout this month.
Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan asset
management. It's always wonderful to
speak with you and I love the way that
uh she framed the idea of what's going
on with the oil vix versus the
complacency that you're seeing in
markets and that's not a gap that can
continue. It's not a gap. Open interest
for Brent oil futures both calls and
puts are at a record. There is so much
demand to hedge but if you look at
whether it be the VIX for the stock
market, the move index for the bond
market, all of those have been trending
lower. It's a huge disconnect to
Kelsey's point. And up next, the
companies that are going to be reporting
earnings to potentially give some sign
of which way it could break. Kelsey
Barrow, thank you again for being with
us. Coming up next, Kate Moore of City
Wealth, General Robert Walsh of Academy
Securities, Jorge Leon of Rystead
Energy, and Calvin C of BNP Paraba.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
The US consumer does not have a lot of
room to absorb an oil supply shock.
because we're going to see a lot more
bouncing.
>> We're not overly bearish on the economy.
>> We're still in a positive growth
environment.
>> Inflation might not be as bad as feared
all things considered.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to the second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance. Stocks
on pause with traders keeping an eye on
tonight's deadline for a deal with Iran.
a dissonance developing between calm
risk markets and increasingly jittery
commodity strategists who come on and
give us a sense every single day of how
this is a very difficult situation that
will likely get worse. Meanwhile,
capital markets still wide open giving
people on the equity side, on the bond
side a sense that actually everything
can tug along just fine once we get past
this. Danny Burgerer here alongside us,
which is such a wonderful thing. Danny,
what's your sense about what we just
heard from Kelsey Barrow about this
dissonance between the oil volatility
market and the rest of capital markets
that seem to be saying la? I think what
was important that she said is that the
dissonance needs to be solved. I know
it's a great question that you've been
posing. Can these two different outlooks
exist? And in one argument, you could
say yes because earnings are strong,
capital markets are open, everything
looks great. But to Kelsey's point, to
have the oil VIX at a record signal
something bad down the road and it
doesn't make sense for assets to not
acknowledge that. And if you listen to
the experts, be it geopolitical or oil
analysts, they are the ones who are
saying this is not going to get
resolved. It's the tourists among us,
which you know probably includes myself.
Uh but it's the tourists among us that
are like no this needs to get resolved.
President Trump has an incentive to he's
going to keep kicking. Even just in
those opinions, there's a disconnect.
>> We have an 8 p.m. deadline. that
President Trump has set to get some sort
of deal across or else there will be
escalation. According to a number of
different speeches that he's been giving
uh just in the past half hour, we've
gotten a couple of different headlines,
including from Iran's mayor state
affiliated news agency that explosions
were heard on Kark Island. Uh then
Israel coming out saying it targeted
dozens of infrastructure sites in Iran.
Those two headlines coming together,
pushing stocks lower, pushing oil
futures higher ahead of the open. A key
question, how do you deescalate when
things seem to be escalating in real
time? And again, this Wall Street
Journal reporting suggests that that's
what Iran sees itself. They already see
the US and Israel attacking
infrastructure. So, the question
apparently had been posed, what
difference does an 8:00 p.m. deadline
make when the president of the United
States has already been attacking Iran?
They're on a wartime footing. Perhaps
they see themselves as succeeding
because they're able to control the
straight of Hormuz. So, why would they
cave in to Trump's demands? And that's a
big tail risk for 8:00 p.m. tonight.
>> We're coming off the longest streak of
gains for the S&P 500 going back to
January. Right now, we're taking some
heat out of that after those dueling
headlines talking about a potential
escalation. Had been uh earlier higher
on the futures. Right now down by about
a half a percent on the S&P futures.
Gold getting a little bit of a bid, but
really this is a question mark around
the precious metal at a time of sell
what you can, not necessarily what you
want to. and yields inflecting higher on
the heels of Brent crude up about 6/10
of a percent 11039. Coming up this hour,
Kate Moore of City Wealth as equities
are looking for that direction. and
General Robert Walsh of Academy
Securities with the clock ticking on
President Trump's Iran ultimatum and
Jorge Leon as of Ricestead Energy as
Tyrron squeezes the straight for moves.
We begin this hour with crude pushing
higher following reports of explosions
on Iran's Car Island just hours before
President Iran's deadline for a peace
deal. Bloomer's Jamaichi joins us now
for more. Hi Jamano, what's the latest?
>> Well, Lisa, as you said, the clock is
ticking. That deadline is 13 hours away.
So the region is on high alert about
whether the president actually follows
through on those threats. And the latest
he he seemed to suggest that over the
course of 4 hours after that deadline he
would uh the US would proceed to
obliterate Iran's power plants, their
bridges, and broader civilian
infrastructures. So this is the
starkkest warning that has come through
to date since the beginning of this war,
and it's been going on for more than
five weeks now. uh so a lot of alarm
about what could happen. At the same
time, I will say that publicly the two
sides are still very very far apart in
terms of the ass and President Trump
over the weekend was quite clear he
wants to see an unconditional reopening
of the streets, a full cessation of
hostilities. Iran have come back with
their own set of counter demands
including a permanent end to the war as
assurances that it will not happy again
happen again and they've insisted that
they do not want to subscribe to a
temporary ceasefire if there is a
sessation of hostilities it has to be
permanent. They're also uh really
leaning in to this new leverage that
they've acquired over the Strait of
Hormuz and insisting on a new protocol
to be adopted around the strait.
obviously something that is not
acceptable to Gulf states or nations
around the world. So this is where the
stances are officially.
Now behind the scenes, there has been a
massive diplomatic push over the last 24
hours. We know that's been spearheaded
by Pakistan, by Egypt. Um the various
Ministry of Foreign Affairs have put out
statements suggesting that calls have
been taking place. Steve Witkov had a
call with the Egyptian foreign minister
as well. So perhaps a slim chance of
some form of diplomatic breakthrough to
come in coming hours. But at the end of
the day, the decision re is is solely
that of the US president and he has to
decide whether he has to follow through
on the threats this time, whether he
pushes back the deadline. Certainly he's
done that before and the other option of
course would be a a diplomatic
breakthrough, but slim chances of that
happening. Now, as you mentioned though
before, um we were even speaking uh on
the ground things are intensifying. Uh
Israel just disclosing that they have
targeted dozens of infrastructure sites
in Iran this morning. They've warned
Iranian residents not to use the railway
or trains in response. Iran has
continued with their attacks on the Gulf
once again targeting key energy sites.
So, still on the ground, the situation
of the war is ongoing. Jamona Persichi
of Bloomberg, thank you as always for
that reporting. Here's a view from Wall
Street this morning. Kate Moore of City
Wealth writing, "Markets absorbed
multiple shocks at once in Q1. Higher
uncertainty naturally leads to higher
volatility and we expect that to
persist." Kate joins us now. She is a
beacon of insight at a time of a lot of
cloudy signals. And Kate, what are you
telling clients given that we're all
sort of hamstrung by a series of
headlines that change from hour to hour?
Yeah, look, this is a really tough time
for all of us in markets and anyone who
proclaims to have some certainty on what
to invest in right now, I think we
should dial that down a little bit. So,
I would say we're doing two things right
now, not just in terms of portfolios,
but also in communicating with our
clients. The first is continuing to
build for resilience. You know, we
manage multi-asset portfolios on behalf
of our clients and we really tried to
think about, you know, what is going to
be kind of the best positioning over the
next couple quarters. we're not so um
prideful to say that we know what's
going to happen over the next couple
years and how do we kind of shore up
risk in that environment. And the second
is to say when there have been some
dislocations in the market, when things
have sold off, when there have been some
price gaps, is this an opportunity for
us to reenter some of the longer term
themes that we have high conviction in.
So, we're taking that kind of barbell
strategy, taking a very measured
approach, the asset allocation, and
really thinking about building
resilience and then taking the
opportunity to leg into some of the
medium-term themes that we think um are
going to be very interesting for
clients.
>> You're framing it in a really
interesting light, especially given
Goldman Sachs coming out and
recommending that people buy big tech.
You see the same kind of thing from uh
Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley, but
others as well coming out saying, "All
right, they've gotten beaten up enough.
The multiples are looking much more
attractive, and this theme is something
that is going to be consistent. We're
seeing that with respect to capital
markets activity and we're seeing that
with respect to some of the investments
and the run rate put forward by some of
the companies that have not yet gone
public. Is that what you're telling
clients too? Buy big tech and and just
expect the best. Well, it's not just big
tech though. I have to say there's an
opportunity in multiple parts of the AI
ecosystem. Some of which had run up very
aggressively. We know over the last two
and a half years and people had backed
away because they were afraid of the
multiples. Well, with a bunch of
multiple contraction this year, D-rating
that we've seen, while significant um
earnings upgrades are still taking place
on the behalf of all these analysts, we
think there's actually an opportunity to
look not just at the big tech or the
hyperscalers, but multiple different
parts of the supply chain. You know, at
the end of last year, kind of at the
beginning of the fourth quarter, we
started really beating the drum on the
resources trade and particularly looking
at things that benefit from the AI and
you know, capex buildout. But that
wasn't it alone. And we also were
constructive on resources because of
what we thought was going to be a
coordinated macro um expansion in the
first half of 2026. Now obviously some
of these commodities have moved for
reasons that we didn't forecast. Um and
we are continuing to tweak our views
here, but we see opportunities in lots
of different parts of the resource base
as well as industrial infrastructure and
you know some of the components that go
into the building out of data centers
and also the the broader tech ecosystem
not just AI.
>> You also still like gold. Yeah.
>> Just what is the view from there in an
asset class that increasingly feels like
just a momentum play at this point?
>> Yeah, look, some of the price action,
you know, in the first part of this
crisis and this conflict was
disappointing, like full stop. But what
I'll say is we added gold to the
portfolio over the course of 2025
specifically to be portfolio balanced.
Like look, I don't want to, you know,
have a lot of duration in the portfolio.
we're not seeing long bonds perform the
role that they have historically in
terms of you know uncorrelated to our
risk assets. So that was a major reason.
We also were looking at kind of you know
how tight spreads have been across the
credit space and saying we prefer to
take our risk in equities over credit
and gold just feels like a nice balance
balance and a balance to all the risk
that we're taking. Um was it awesome
that the price appreciation in in the
metal was incredible last year and it
was also a source of alpha for our
multiasset portfolios? Sure. But that's
not the reason it was in portfolios. And
I will say, you know, we talk a lot
about positioning and technicals and
stuff or equities, but positioning in in
gold was really quite long coming into
this crisis, particularly for individual
investors and more of the retail side of
the investment community. And so perhaps
I shouldn't be as surprised that gold
didn't perform as well in this riskoff
moment. Of course, real rates going
higher has traditionally had a different
relationship with gold, but we're still
holding it. In fact, you know, I would
buy it today if you didn't have exposure
for the medium-term because I think it's
going to be important part of a
multi-asset framework.
>> On the positioning point, I mean, just
given what you're saying, it does seem
like gold felt kind of like the poster
child for, oh, everything is moving
based on positioning, at least the first
few weeks of the war, it did seem like
what we saw was a lot of hedge funds
getting close to the ground. To what
degree is positioning still a large
driver of what we're seeing in equity
markets? Maybe less around fundamentals,
maybe more technicals. Yeah, look,
positioning, technicals and sentiment
are a big pillar of our investment
process. And you know, when I first
started developing that framework over
the course of my investment career, I
thought to myself, you know, how
impactful will it be? Well, thank
goodness that we look at all these
indicators and we try to bring in data
from all these different sources to
assess how different segments of the
population, investment population are
positioned because you can be right on
the macro, you can be right on the
fundamentals and if it's already priced
into markets or everybody already owns
it, there's no upside. So um in this
case I would say positioning sentiment
and technicals in risk markets was more
tepid and kind of what I would call um
you know very neutral going into you
know February 27th. I think that set
things up so that the draw downs in
equities were not as great as you would
expect from a shock of this type of war
um or something that might be an
economic crisis not just an oil price
shock
>> which leads to scenario analysis. Let's
say oil prices go to $120 $130 a barrel
and stay there. How much more downside
is there for risk assets given that
tepid approach heading into the
conflict?
>> Well, I think you're going to see a
significant amount of differentiation in
the equity market at $120 um oil. And
that's simply because some of the tech
stuff we were just talking about is not
going to be as sensitive to the oil
price. And I think that and I'm not
saying there will be no pullback in
capex. that is the last place that
companies um any business any government
is going to pull back their spending
because it's existential to kind of
growth over the medium term but you're
going to see I think a significant um
deterioration in some parts of the
consumer and then some kind of the
energyheavy uh input parts of the market
so differentiation at $120 but not I
would say a massive like 15 or 20% drop
in the stock market because it's not
overly owned at this point people are
still relatively neutral in terms of
their positioning.
>> Kate Moore, it is always wonderful to
have you on the show. Thank you so much
for being with us. Kate Moore of City
Wealth uh joining us here in New York.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with the Ahra. Hi, Lisa.
Iranian semiofficial state media
reporting that explosions were heard in
the last hour on Carg Island. The
reports did not specify the source of
the explosions. Oil prices spiked after
the reports before pairing some of those
gains. Car Island is the departure point
for about 90% of Iranian oil exports.
President Donald Trump insisting the
Straight of Hormuse's opening must be
part of any deal to end the war in Iran.
The president saying if there is no deal
by 8:00 tonight. The US military could
destroy key Iranian infrastructure,
including power plants and bridges.
And Iran remaining defiant ahead of that
800 p.m. deadline. Iran's Minister of
Youth and Sports reportedly calling on
the country's youth to form human chains
around the country's power plants which
he called our national assets. That's
your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira, up next,
deadline for destruction.
>> We're giving them till tomorrow 8:00
Eastern time. And after that, they're
going to have no bridges. They're going
to have no power plants. The entire
country could be taken out in one night.
And that night might be tomorrow night.
>> General Robert Walsh of Academy
Securities joins next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
It's another day when we're all looking
at our screens wondering what headline's
going to drop next to give us a sense of
how close we are to a good or a bad
outcome at 8:00 p.m. Eastern time
tonight. That deadline that President
Trump has set. Equity futures initially
came into the day trying to skew
optimistic. That has turned on a series
of headlines that have come out
indicating explosions being heard in
Kark Island. S&P futures lower by 4/10en
of a percent. A bigger draw down in the
Russell 2000 down 7/10en of a percent on
the back of a move in bond yields.
Yields higher after earlier being lower.
moving in tandem now with oil prices
given the fact that people are wondering
whether the Beth Hammock view of the Fed
is the right one which is that a rate
hike could be on the table should we get
ongoing and prolonged oil price spikes
and what you are seeing in the crude
space both for Brent and WTI the June
contracts uh both inlecting higher 610
of a percent for Brent WTI up a percent
at $9943
under surveillance this morning deadline
for destruction
>> we're giving them till tomorrow 8:00
Eastern time. And after that, they're
going to have no bridges. They're going
to have no power plants. Every bridge in
Iran will be decimated by 12:00 tomorrow
night where every power plant in Iran
will be out of business. The entire
country can be taken out in one night.
And that night might be tomorrow night.
>> Here's the latest. Less than 13 hours
until President Trump's deadline to
obliterate civilian infrastructure if
the street of Hormuz is not reopened by
8:00 p.m. Eastern. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now. Hi Tyler. What's
going on?
>> Yeah. Hey Lisa. Well, we heard yesterday
from President Trump saying that what
Iran does today will determine whether
or not the US is winding down or
escalating its operations later tonight
amid these reports that you were
discussing on the program that Israel
has already confirmed it's hit dozens of
infrastructure sites in Iran and that
Iranian state media is reporting that
there have been explosions on Car
Island. Now, yesterday we did get a
little bit more clarity from this White
House that they need to see freedom of
navigation when it comes to the straight
of Hermuz as part of any potential
agreement. And our own analysts at
Bloomberg Economics say that as of now,
their assessment is that we are going to
see more escalation rather than
negotiation as their base case remains
that there is going to be an uptick in
fighting before this turns into what
they are calling a low inensity war.
Now, of course, President Trump could
still delay his threats himself, as
we've previously seen him done before,
considering yesterday he did say that he
feels that Iran is negotiating in good
faith and that he actually feels that
Iranian leadership has been hampered
from effective communication with the US
over security concerns. Uh alluding to
the fact that that's partly why he gave
Iran some more time, delaying this
deadline before. But still, at least
publicly, Iran has really taken this
hardline stance, rejecting a ceasefire
proposal yesterday, putting out its own
top 10 demands, many of which were
considered non-starters by the US and
continuing to hit energy infrastructure
in the Gulf. Now, Lisa, Bloomberg News
did have some new reporting overnight.
People familiar with the matter telling
us that President Trump has also
considered seizing Iranian oil, not just
as a leverage point over Iran, but
actually a leverage point over China
amid the ongoing trade negotiations.
Still, sources caution that there are no
plans at the moment to do so as
President Trump indicated yesterday that
he would be taking a political risk by
keeping troops in the region longer than
necessary.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much as
always for that. General Robert Walsh uh
Walsh of Academy Securities writing,
"Infrastructure is only a legal target
if it directly supports military
operations. Dual use systems like
energy, ports, oil are where things get
legally and politically risky." General
Walsh joins us now. General, thank you
so much for being with us and we'll get
to the legality of certain types of
strikes in a moment. I just want to
start with how likely do you see
escalation as the outcome of tonight?
I think the path we're on, Lisa, good
morning. Thanks for having me today. Is
uh we're on that escalation. We're
probably seeing some of those strikes
start to happen today. You've been had
some of your reports that the IDF has
started that. I think this is just kind
of a test of wills here now to see where
today goes. And I think Trump, President
Trump was very clear yesterday that if
Iran does not come to the negotiating
table to negotiate, you know, fairly and
honestly, then they're going to continue
to escalate this and and the escalation
will continue until Iran really decides
that they want to negotiate in good
faith uh and start to give into some of
the things that the Trump administration
is looking for.
>> And and one of the things, you know, the
Trump administration is now looking for,
General, is to have the Straight of
Hormuse open. You do believe that Iran
will open or ease the straight, but you
say only when it extracts enough value.
What does that scenario look like?
>> I think that value they're looking for
is one of the things they're saying is
they want control of the straits when
this is over. Uh and I don't think
that's anything anybody in the Gulf
region or or the the US side wants at
all. They also would like the US and
Israel to stop all, you know, military
actions. Uh one of their earlier things
was they would like the the US to leave
the Middle East. Uh so I think you know
the uh and and another big one that is
on the table by Iran is they'd like to
continue enrichment. So controlling the
straits into the future and continuing
to be able to enrichment is one of those
things that's just off the table for the
US after how far we've been. And I think
this escalation will continue. There's a
point in time here that the US makes the
decision that we continue to escalate
and eventually you just go for ending
this thing and you just go after taking
down their military capabilities just as
far as you can take it. uh some of these
infrastructure targets we talk about
that would be dual use type targets. Uh
the US has to be careful on that. But
you start to really just take down their
military capabilities to go back into
production and be able to build these
capabilities up again. I think that
becomes the real challenge for them when
you start to take down some of these
infrastructure capabilities. And I think
Tyler also mentioned China. I think
China's a key thing going into this is
when this is all over. I think uh
President Trump needs to look President
G in the the eye and go which side are
you really on when it comes to the
global community. You're supporting uh
you know President uh Putin on the in
the Ukraine war and here you are
supporting uh the Iranians with missiles
and technology. Are you going to
continue that or are you going to be
more on the side of the world community?
I suppose though if President Trump does
want to end it and he does so with more
military force general, do you expect
that they need to also be able to regain
or get control of the Strait of Hormuse
and allow for free passage and how
difficult would that be of an operation?
Yeah, I I think that's very clear that
the the the path that the US is on as
they start to continue to take down the
Iranian military capabilities in in
conjunction with the uh the Israeli
Defense Force. They continue to take
that down. They they've put this bubble
really over the entire country. Now they
really have to focus on another phase
and just really focus on the Straits of
Hormuz uh to be able to make that more
safe for uh commercial navigation. It
obviously would get to the point where
the US Navy could come into the the
Gulf. They could escort commercial
tankers through there and that's a
another phase that we could be going
into and I certainly think it's doable
with the capabilities that the US
military has and that would be another
phase as we move forward. The US is not
going to allow uh Iran to continue to
have this leverage over the Straits of
Iran. This will take longer than the the
original plan and thought because the
enemy has a vote. the enemy has voted to
use the Straits of Haran Hormuz as
leverage and now that they're using it
uh the US is going to have to move to a
phase where they they make that much
more safe where they can bring into
commercial shipping and again I'll say
that they can do that.
>> We just have about a minute left. Just
getting some headlines reporting from
Axio saying that the US conducted
strikes on military targets on Car
Island. Based on your understanding of
the region, how important is Car Island?
what kind of targets could be in their
sights?
>> I think the big thing is this is really
kind of the key thing for the Iranian
government, but also for the IRGC, which
gets 50% of its funding from the oil
that goes through Car Island. So, this
is a lifeline to the regime. And if the
US starts to hit these military targets,
it's a signal today that we're serious
about going after infrastructure that is
important to the regime. And the more
and more we see with this regime, the le
more that we're seeing that they're
isolating the current uh political
leadership, President Peskian, and
they're taking more and more control and
becoming more and more hardline. So an
attack on Card Island would send a clear
signal to the IRGC that President Trump
is serious, the Israelis are serious
about not allowing them to continue to
control oil, get money, and continue to
grow their military capabilities.
>> General Robert Walsh, thank you so much
for being with us and all of those
insights. If you are just joining us, we
are getting uh news reported by Axios
that the US did conduct strikes on
military targets on Kark Island. This
follows reporting from Iranian state
linked media saying similar that they
similarly that they did see attacks. You
are seeing oil prices inflect just a
touch higher on the heels of these
reported explosions. Coming up next,
Jorge Leon of Ricead with energy clearly
in view.
seeing a move in markets on the backs of
a series of headlines earlier this
morning. Uh coming into the session, we
saw a bit of optimism coming out with
possibly another day, a fifth straight
day of gains. Right now, that has turned
negative following reports of explosions
on Kark Island and Axios reporting that
the US has conducted strikes of military
targets on Kark Island. You can see the
Russell 2000 getting beaten up the most.
Uh down 7/10en of a percent, similar
declines across the board on the heels
of a real move between oil and rates.
The idea that when you do get these oil
spikes, rates tend to sell off, yields
go higher, and that is what you're
seeing earlier in the morning. We saw
actually a bid into bonds throughout the
curve. Now, it's the opposite. It's
reversed. Uh you're seeing two-year
yields up about a basis point at 3.86%,
86% 10ear yields 4.34%
ahead of a bunch of supply coming later
this week three-year today tomorrow
we've got 10-year and then 30-year uh
coming out the day after that and then
what you do see the big story has been
in the oil space and what you have seen
once again with concern of escalation
oil prices higher this is the June
contract for both Brent and WTI both
higher by about a percent 11074 on Brent
9958 on WTI 2 hours away from the cash
open here are your morning movers with
Yahihira and Jihara.
>> Hi Lisa. Positive news out of Washington
lifting the insurance sector with the
government coming out with a better
thanex expected updates on Medicare
raising payments by about 2.5%
translating to about $13 billion flowing
back into the industry. And importantly,
it's a clear step up from the initial
rates proposed back in January, which
were about flat. So we are seeing shares
of Humanana up 9.6% 6% while United
Health and CVS are also rising. Uh we
are also seeing shares of Broadcom up
3.2%.
Google uh trimming some of its gains on
this partnership. Broadcom locking in a
partnership with Alphabet to help
develop and supply Google's customuilt
AI chips also known as TPUs along with
the networking behind those systems. We
know that Enthropic will also tap into
the capacity into that capacity uh with
all three deepening their partnership.
And we end on shares of ARM ARM ADRs.
They are falling 3% on a downgrade by
analysts over at Morgan Stanley to equal
weights. And this call is all about
execution risk as ARM tries to move
beyond licensing its chips to actually
selling them. analysts warning that this
introduces a new layer of complexity and
that it could put ARM in competition
with its own uh customers. Lisa, thank
you so much. Yhira, on our radar this
morning, crude prices climbing following
reports of explosions on Kark Island,
home to Iran's largest oil terminal.
Meanwhile, President Trump vowing to
destroy Iranian power plants and bridges
if if a ceasefire agreement is not met
by tonight at 8:00 p.m. Eastern. and
Iran maintaining a total blockade on
tankers carrying liqufied natural gas
through the straight of Ramoose. More
than a dozen vessels are currently
idling after being denied clearance, a
standoff that has already pushed global
exports to a sixmonth low. And lastly,
Cleveland Fed President Beth Hammock
making some headlines, saying a rate
hike could be appropriate if inflation
remains above the central bank's 2%
target. Coming up at 8:30 a.m. Eastern,
our own Michael McKe sits down with New
York Fed President John Williams. Danny,
this is the question. Is the issue just
how long the Fed is going to wait before
they cut rates? Or could they seriously
be considering a rate hike should the
oil shock deepen? This thing, just
introducing the two-way risk certainly
changes things for markets. Even if she
did say a cut is also possible, but this
is a rates market that at one point
during this conflict started to price in
the possibility of hikes, that gets
taken off the table. Do we need to add
to that? You do see Treasury yields.
they've moved the most since 2022 in
that conflict with Russia. And you were
talking about this, the reason 2022 was
different is because hikes were on the
table and they haven't been this year.
What happens if that changes?
>> Yeah, I was just uh noting that Cameron
Dawson when she was on earlier this
week, yesterday in fact, she wrote in
her notes a phrase that I loved, find
someone to believe in you like the bond
market believes in the Fed's ability to
get inflation back to 2%. It's a reason
why I keep watching 5year 5year forward
break even rates. uh because there is
this sense that regardless of what
happens, the Fed has this under control.
And yet, it has been more than 5 years
we have inflation had inflation above
that 2% target. Clearly, that makes some
people very nervous, especially because
no one wants to say this time is
different.
>> Well, you you've been pointing out how
the oil market and the bond market have
been trading in lock step this morning.
Maybe something there needs to change
because the backwardation is so extreme
in oil futures. you get a really steep
drop off in what we're expecting for
further out oil prices. Perhaps you
won't see 5-year inflation expectations
move until you see oil prices move too
cuz for now it really has been in the
front part of that oil market that's
seen the majority of the pain. Let's get
more insight on that because that's been
one of the conundrums. Is the
forward-looking curve really reflecting
some of the risks that commodity
analysts have been expressing certainly
on this program but many others as well.
That is our top story. crude pushing
higher on reports of explosions on
Iran's Car Island. President Trump
insisting any deal with Tyrron must
include the reopening of the street of
Vermuz.
>> We have to have a deal that's acceptable
to me and part of that deal is going to
be we want free traffic of oil and
everything else. I would say it's a very
big priority. We have a concept where
we'll charge tolls.
>> Jorge Leon of Rise Energy writing, "This
is no longer just a supply story. It's a
broader macro story impacting growth,
inflation, and policy. Jorge joins us
now. Uh Jorge, thank you so much for
being with us. What do you make right
now of the forward-looking curve in
crude that points to a deescalation
that the market is taking a signal from?
Hi Lisa, thank you for the invitation.
Indeed, this is I think that right now
the market is trying to understand what
is likely to happen. Are we going going
to see escalation or deescalation in the
coming hours? On the one hand, we have a
deadline that is clocks are ticking. On
the other hand, we have this news that
there was an attack on card island. So,
still very much unknown. But at the same
time, I think that we should brace
ourselves for possibility that this
become becomes a longer conflict that
this, you know, the the traffic through
the straight of Hormuz remains closed
for an extended period of time. So I
think that that's what is trying to the
market is trying to figure out at this
at this at this moment
>> and a lot of people are turning to
scenario analysis simply because we
don't have a lot of facts. One question
has been at what point is this a growth
shock and at what point is this an
inflationary shock? What are the
thresholds you have on oil prices where
it's one or the other?
>> Sure. So at the moment let's let's think
about scenarios. The oil price averages
$110 per barrel this year. Global growth
will be will be trimmed down by around 1
percentage point. So from around right
now what 3% before the crisis to 2%. Now
at the same time $110 per barrel means
that global inflation will pick up
rapidly and then you have the secondary
effect. So if the central banks around
the world are going to start increasing
interest rates, uh then that complicates
even more the macroeconomic outlook. And
let's not forget that the ECB here in
Europe and the Fed in the US have the
next meeting on April 30th. And there is
a lot of possibilities at this moment if
the war continues that we are going to
see actually increases in interest
rates. uh as I said on April the 30th
>> Jorge some have pointed to PIMCO being
among them the the opposite side of that
which Lisa was also getting at that it
would result in a hit to growth why
would the next move be a hike and not a
cut if you do see lower growth as a
result of higher energy prices?
>> That's a that's a that's a great
question. This is normally part of the
of the of the book of central banks,
right? Fighting against inflation. that
is a key for any macroeconomic um
director for any any director of a
central bank. Inflation is the key um
you know enemy of of macroeconomic
growth in the medium and and and long
term. So and that is part of the mandate
of central banks. So um I would I would
assume that that same manual is going to
continue in this this this time around.
That is what central banks have been
doing. When there is a supply shock
which increases oil prices killing the
inflation is fundamental for a for a
more optimistic macroeconomic output.
Not in the very short term. I agree with
you. But if we're thinking about how we
exit this this conflict, then increasing
interest rates, killing inflation is
probably one of the most sensible things
to do. I I just keep thinking about what
we heard from the IEA who called this
year's disruption the worst ever for the
global economy equivalent to the two
major crises of the 1970s and the of oil
crisis in 2022 when it comes to natural
gas. Jorge are are you looking at a
similar environment a disruption the
worst ever for energy markets?
>> Yes and no. There are some elements that
point towards this is this is much more
serious than let's say the two oil
crisis of the 1970s and there are all
other elements that say no they're
probably a little bit less less serious.
Let's focus on the ones that show that
this is slightly less serious. First of
all the world depends less on oil right
now right than we did in 1970. Now we
have nuclear, we have renewables. So the
oil intensity of the global economy is
lower significantly lower now than in
1970. But then you have the other
argument that back then in 1970 there
was not a lot of gas demand, right? Uh
and right now you have a double crisis
which is oil and gas. So those are the
two elements that we we could probably
think think about um you know when
comparing to to the to the you know to
the previous energy crisis. But I agree
with you whether it's you know a bit
more serious or less less serious than
than the previous crisis. Um it sort of
it's it's sort of slightly irrelevant.
Right now what we need to focus is on
how long this is going to last for to
make sure that we have you know the
correct verict at the end of the of the
crisis. The duration is the key variable
here. Is this going to end up uh being
an extended a prolonged crisis or this
is going to be a shortly crisis? Jorge
Leon of Riceed Energy, thank you so much
for all of your insights. Uh we've been
reporting throughout the morning about
explosions heard on Car Island. First
reported by Iranian linked media, Axios
coming out and saying that the United
States had attacked certain sites on uh
Car Island specifying that they were
military targets. Fox now reporting some
new details saying that the targets
included bunkers, radar station, and
ammo storage, but that they
intentionally did not target the landing
docks on Car Island. Danny, some details
coming out right now.
>> Again, fog of war trying to understand
exactly what this means. I was thinking
to our conversation with General Robert
Walsh just moments ago and the
likelihood that the US would want to get
control militarily of the Strait of
Hormuse that maybe that's where they
eventually need to go. That would
include uh Carg Island. At the moment it
is just explosions. It's not as far as
we understand people on uh Car Island
itself, but it's just another factor to
think in as the deadline ticks down to
8:00 p.m. today.
>> Yeah. And the drip drip drip of
headlines has pushed uh oil futures a
little bit higher and higher and higher
as commodity traders assess whether this
pushes us closer to escalation or
deescalation. Again, we're looking at uh
crude trading at $114.50.
That is the May contract. Brent crude
trading for the June contract is $11067.
When you look out to June, comparing
apples to apples, WTI up about 9/10en of
a percent, Brent up about 8/10en of a
percent. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your blue brief with Yhierra on Anna and
Jihara. Hi, Lisa. Israel saying it
launched a new wave of attacks on Iran
targeting dozens of infrastructure sites
in the country. Iranian state media
reporting that a joint USIsrael air
strike hit a railway bridge in the
center of Iran that killed two people.
Israel had previously warned Iranian
civilians to avoid the country's rail
network until 900 pm local time. Here,
Morgan Stanley is planning to debut a
new credit fund despite concerns
surrounding the sector. The fund will
invest predominantly in private credit
and include a wide spectrum of credit
strategies. The bank plans to allow
redemptions of up to 5% every quarter.
And debt to fund AI still seeing huge
interest. The Blackstone owned data
center operator in the US raised $4.6
billion in investment grade notes to
refinance a project hosting thousands of
servers including for Microsoft. The
deal attracted about 12.5 billion
dollars in demand according to sources.
The banks involved declined to comment.
That's your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. And that kind of
gives a perfect example of how wide open
capital markets are and how much demand
there is to finance. The data center
buildout, the infrastructure buildout
tied to artificial intelligence, tied to
an industrial renaissance and speaks to
the reason why some people are looking
past this to medium and longer term
themes.
>> By the way, it's also the antidote to
the fears over private credit that
credit markets are still wide open.
Another Blackstone related story, they
hit their cap for their opportunistic
credit fund at $10 billion. Huge amounts
of demand for investors to get into a
private credit fund from Blackstone.
>> A lot of conflicting signals right now.
None of them really pointing to some
sort of massive credit downturn. At
least not for now. Up next, bracing for
economic shock.
>> There's no real sign of inflation
expectations becoming unanchor. But
remember the energy shock. We don't
really still know how big it's going to
be and or how long it's going to last.
The war is the biggest risk. And you
know, I think the markets are still I
think under underestimating that risk.
Up next, Calvin C of BNP Paraba as we
assess the tea leaves coming from the
economic data that has happened as well
as what's up next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Welcome back to Bloomberg Surveillance.
We're looking at a market where you're
seeing optimism just fade a touch around
the edges. Equity futures lower down 510
of a percent on the S&P index as we look
toward that 9 800 p.m. deadline Eastern
time between the US and Iran. Meanwhile,
a bit of strength in the euro 11561
versus the dollar. 10-year yields
inlecting up again that lock step
relationship between yields and oil. Oil
prices higher 8/10 9/10en of a percent
now on Brent to 11071
under surveillance this morning bracing
for economic shock.
>> This is both a shock to growth and a
shock to inflation. So the Fed is back
where they were you know a year ago. I
think in the current environment they're
just going to sit on their hands for
quite some time. There's no real sign of
inflation expectations becoming
unanchored. But remember the energy
shock we don't really still know how big
it's going to be and or how long it's
going to last. The war is the biggest
risk. And you know, I think the markets
are still, I think, under
underestimating that risk.
>> Here's the latest. Cleveland Fed
President Beth Hammock telling the AP
she sees a possible rate hike scenario
if inflation persists as the war in Iran
clouds the economic outlook. Calvin C of
BNP Parabo, writing, "We believe the
FOMC may now regret having eased policy
in 2025. Our base case is that the Fed
moves to a symmetric bias in April and
keeps rates on a long hold." Calvin
joins us now. Calvin, great to see you.
Thank you for being here.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Regrets the rate cuts. Please explain
given the fact that a lot of them are
saying that the economy had been weak
and that labor market is showing signs
of cracks.
>> I think what the Fed is now
re-evaluating is why the labor market
was weak late last year. The Fed cut
rates because job gains trickled to a
really low level. But increasingly, you
could hear many Fed speakers now
increasingly blaming those low levels of
job gains on just simply low labor
supply. We have very few immigrants
coming into the country now. And I think
what many at the Fed are now accepting
is that low level of job gains are fine.
So long as the unemployment rate remains
relatively rangebound, which it has
been, we're at full employment.
>> So you think Beth Hammock is not an
outlier in talking about potentially
putting a rate hike back on the table,
not as a likely path of travel, but as a
potential outcome should inflation
remain at the levels that it currently
is at. The reason why we think the Fed
is moving to a symmetric bias later this
month is because we think most at the
Fed now are open-minded to a wider range
of possibilities. I think the Fed is
going to be really hesitant to hiking
rates. But there are two conditions that
we think could get them there. One is if
the unemployment rate keeps dropping
down perhaps to that 4% level, that
would clearly tell the Fed that hm maybe
the current setting of monetary policy
actually isn't that tight. And the other
is inflation expectations.
This shock to oil prices that we've seen
bumping inflation, it's not the first
one. This is the fourth shock that we've
seen to inflation now for the last 5
years. And the risk is that inflation
expectations begin to unwind. And if
that happens, that's going to be a
really tricky spot for the Fed. And that
may be a path we think that could
potentially get them toward hiking. Just
on the employment side, do you believe
that what we saw on Friday wasn't a
one-off that it does point to continued
strength in the labor markets just
because there's been a lot made of this
pattern and basically has gone bad
month, good month, very bad month, very
good month that feels like it's kind of
evened out to something steady. Where do
we stand at the moment?
>> It's not new that we have a lot of
volatility in the labor market numbers,
which is why we tend to look at things
on a moving average basis. And in that
regard, we're seeing job gains that are
again slow but good enough.
The job gains have been up and down and
up and down, but the unemployment rate
has been surprisingly steady. We think
that's the number one thing that the Fed
is keeping its eye on, that unemployment
rate. And because the break even rate of
payrolls is so low, in other words, the
number of job gains you need every month
to keep the unemployment rate flat, we
think that the Fed is very comfortable
just sitting on its hands. The labor
market isn't screaming hot, but it's not
blisteringly cold. It's just kind of in
the right place, which is what we think
gives the Fed time to just see it
through, keep rates on hold for a while,
and determine their next move.
>> So, that's one of your prerequisites to
allow for the conversation about a hike
having on on the other side of things
with inflation expectations. What is the
mechanism for it to bleed through and
not just be a one-off energy shock? what
needs to happen in order for that to
translate into inflation expectations
elevating and remaining there.
>> Sure. As mentioned before, this is not
the first time that we're seeing higher
inflation. We had the post-pandemic
reopening. We had Russia's invasion of
Ukraine. We had tariffs and now we've
got rising energy prices because of the
conflict in the Middle East. The Fed is
very worried about consumers expecting
higher inflation in the future because
it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy.
And if consumers after seeing another
shock to inflation throw in the towel
and say, "You know what? That's what
that's it. this economy is going to see
permanently higher inflation and people
start pulling forward their purchases
then again that can lead to inflation
running higher and higher and higher and
the Fed would need to get ahead of that
pretty quickly to arrest those
expectations should they begin to
unanchor
>> the biggest push back to this is that
even though we got a hot uh headline
payrolls print on Friday the actual
wages did not increase as much as people
expected it and actually increased at
the slowest pace in a number of years
highlighting that we're not going to see
necessarily that wage price spiral
similarly with the some service data
that came out yesterday, the employment
component fell to the lowest level that
we've seen in at least three years. All
of this pointing to the idea that there
isn't really heat in the labor market
that could sustain kind of white as some
kind of wage price spiral. Why isn't
that enough for you to sort of take that
aspect of the equation off the table?
>> We agree with that right now. Right now,
there are really no wage pressures in
the US economy. The labor market is at
full employment, but the labor market is
not particularly tight right now. Which
is why I said earlier for the Fed to
consider rate hikes, we need the
unemployment rate to be dropping
dropping to this 4% level or below. And
at that level, I think the Fed would get
a lot more concerned that with the labor
market tightening a lot that wages could
begin to percolate a bit, but not right
now.
>> I feel a bit like a broken record. At
what point do oil prices get to a level
where it's more of a growth shock than
an inflation shock? And conversely,
where can oil prices level out where it
will be more of an inflation shock than
a growth shock?
>> It's a delicate dance for the Fed to uh
to have to deal with. We think that
right now the primary impact on the
economy is on inflation. On the growth
side, we think that oil prices probably
need to be a lot higher than here for us
to entertain something like a recession.
And the reason I say that is twofold.
One, the energyy's energy is just a much
smaller part of the economy now. In
other words, the economy is less energy
intensive. It uses we use less energy to
generate each unit of GDP output today
than we'd have in the past. Number two,
uh let's think about inflationadjusted
terms here in terms of oil prices. Oil
prices are high, but if we look at
things from an inflation adjusted
perspective, in order for us to get to
the 2008 level prices of oil, we would
probably need to be at somewhere around
$200 a barrel. So, when we put that into
perspective, again, it's not great for
the consumer. Our rule of thumb is that
every dollar increase in oil prices or
gas prices at the pump takes about about
a hundred billion dollars away from
consumer's pockets if if sustained over
an annual basis but historically
the levels that we're seeing now are
high but they're not crazily high on an
inflation adjusted basis. Cavveny, this
was great. Come back again soon. Thank
you so much for being here. Cavveny of
BNP Paraba as we parse through the
growth versus inflation shock aspect of
this. I'm just looking right now at
diesel prices at the pump here in the
US. The key indicator for how you ship
goods that can get into consumer prices
more quickly. Highest levels going back
to 2022, Danny.
>> And then for gas prices yesterday, they
surpassed 2004's peak for the second
time. The other time before that was
Russia's invasion of Ukraine. At the
same time, people continuing to spend
and that's why you're seeing some
outlooks from a lot of companies. Next
up, we've got Delta coming out tomorrow.
Coming up next hour, Katrina Dudley of
Franklin Templeton, Daryl Kron of Wells
Fargo, New York Fed President John
Williams. Do not miss that with our own
Michael McKe and David Se of Namura.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
Equities are really looking for hope for
a resolution.
>> Panic buying more than panic selling.
The underlying shift to the US and a
reversal of last year's trade makes a
lot of sense here. We expect volatility
to continue
>> in a six-month window. I can see a lot
of volatility.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance. Optimism
fading as traders keep an eye on
tonight's deadline for a deal with Iran.
Reports of explosions on Car Island
keeping risk appetite at bay but not
extinguished. A dissonance developing
between calm risk markets, open capital
markets, and increasingly Danny jittery
commodity strategists.
>> I was just looking at the performance of
the major asset classes since this war
broke out. Some of it is extremely
logical. Oil up more than 50% depending
on what contract you're looking at.
10-year yields up 38 basis points which
is the biggest since Russia's invasion
of Ukraine. Stocks are down less than
4%. And in fact they've erased half of
their decline to the most extreme of the
extent. So you are seeing this
disconnect to your point it is
dissonance between what oil markets are
pricing and what other risk assets are
pricing. And when last week we saw a
little bit of a reprieve from some of
the most extreme threats. We saw
actually a bounce back not just in risk
assets with the best week of gains for
the S&P and the NASDAQ going back to
late last year but a similar move in
credit. So this is confirmed again by
credit markets and you actually saw
March with the biggest amount of global
bond issue going back uh ever really.
And so you put this together, you
wonder, is this a market that's overly
complacent or is this a market that is
predicated on other influences that are
driving the bus?
>> I was going to say what is the setup
here? Is it just that earnings are
really good, corporations are resilient,
AI spending continues, or that there is
a belief that this conflict will end and
it will end soon? That stands in
contrast to one an 8:00 p.m. deadline
that's seen some very hawkish rhetoric
from this president of escalation and
maybe current escalation ongoing right
now with to your point those reports
that the US did attack military targets
on Car Island. So the data that we've
got coming up, we've got Delta earnings
coming out tomorrow, which will be a key
indicator as we really kick off an
earning season that begins in earnest
next week. Of course, we also get Fed
meeting minutes to give a sense of how
many people are in Beth Hammock's camp
of potentially putting a symmetric risk
on the table of potentially a rate hike
as well as a rate cut as being the next
move. Job's claims and core PCE as well
as income and spending on Thursday and
CPI data coming on Friday. How important
is inflation data at a time, Danny,
where we're considering the idea of
stagflation. We're considering the idea
of prolonged oil prices being higher
while at the same time, a consumer is
strong enough to absorb it. It's
something Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan
said to us that perhaps some of the
complacency, if you will, in markets
exist because it hasn't showed up in the
data yet. We started to get that in
yesterday's ISM sort of stagflationary
feel to it. What happens as we continue
to get more data? what happens if we get
CPI that does show the biggest increase
in inflation since 2022. Maybe then
markets wake up but again there has been
a real resistance to price anything like
that in
>> right now you're seeing a bit of a
riskoff feel as we do get news of some
explosions heard on Kark Island
reporting of the US struck military
assets on the region not some of the uh
shipping docks or other more civilian
and commercial uh sites. We're seeing
S&P futures lower by about a half a
percent. 7/10en of a percent decline on
the NASDAQ and Russell 2000. The bond
space tracking oil yields higher in
tandem with oil prices higher pretty
much across the board. Not significant
move still a reversal from what we saw
earlier this morning. 30-year yields
4.91%
creeping higher by two basis point. That
question of do we hit that 5% mark. And
in the crude space, both Brent and WTI,
the June contracts trading up more than
1%, both of them 111 on Brent. We could
see $100 even for WTI's June contract.
Coming up this hour, Katrina Dudley of
Franklin Templeton as political
uncertainty whipssaws markets. Daryl
Kron of Wells Fargo upgrading their
outlook on the tech sector. And New York
Fed President John Williams with
inflation concerns weighing on the path
ahead for interest rates. We begin this
hour with stocks following following
reports that the US has conducted
strikes on military targets on Carg
Island just 12 hours away from President
Donald Trump's deadline for Iran.
Katrina Dudley of Franklin Templeton
writing this. These events in the
conflict could drive uncertainty through
energy markets which feeds directly into
inflation expectations, rates and
overall market sentiment. Katrina joins
us now. Katrina, great to see you. Thank
you for being here.
>> Great. Thanks for having me. So, how do
you frame this in terms of whether any
of this is tradable or whether you just
sort of sit and watch and sort of stick
with how you're allocated? So, if you
take a look, people are talking sticking
with how you're allocated as being
complacent. So, you're actually kind of,
you know, really needing to fight that
narrative that I am, you know, not
paying attention to what's happening.
But if we look at the market and what is
driving the market, it is AI sentiment
and that is really key. And we think
that what's happening, the geopolitical
concerns are real, but they're not
undermining the core thesis that we went
into this year with, which is continued
tech AI spending. A consumer resiliency
that is still there, a little bit more,
you know, less certain, but I think it's
still there on the resiliency of that
consumer. the geopolitical tensions have
really undermined things. But oil, if
you look at the entire energy sector,
it's just such a small part of our
market today.
>> At the same time, people looking past
some of the consumerf facing industries
and pointing to big tech. You talked
about how the AI trade was something
that really did have legs and we were
talking to Kate Moore about how that
would be the last thing, the capex
spending would be the last thing cut
considering this is an existential race.
Goldman Sachs coming out, Peter
Oppenheimer saying this is the time to
buy the dip in big tech. Do you feel
similarly?
>> I think that big tech is now a safe
haven. I think that big tech is not as
cyclical as we've seen it in the past.
You're talking about it as being the
last thing to cut. And that's the type
of language that we use for things that
are considered staples and stable items.
So I think that AI and big tech when you
talk about that AI arms rates I
completely agree with what Kate said
that the fact is you know we are going
to continue to invest in AI we are
starting to see returns from those use
cases as well and I think that that is
the offset that the market is really
ignoring at this stage which is the idea
that we've done all this spending we've
taken all those expenses but now we're
starting to see on use cases in our back
office for example we're starting to see
those cost takeouts And so it's not now
just always like, you know, cash going
into the AI spending bucket. We're
starting to see the returns.
>> Even so, the Mag 7 big cap tech stocks,
they certainly haven't been a monolith.
They've been trading differently. It's
remarkable that Apple has been one of
the best performers when it feels like
that was left for dead, that they had
missed out on the AI story. Uh, and then
you look at something like a Walmart
that is set to grow more slowly than all
of the Mag 7, but it is priced at a
massive premium to the group. How much
of this market also just wants to see
cash flow that it's not enough again in
years past that they were spending on AI
and advancing but balance sheets need to
be robust. I don't think in this stage
of the investment that you need to have
like a a kind of pristine balance sheet.
You're investing and you're investing
for growth and that means that you are
taking risks. you're taking risks in the
sense that that capital may not be worth
anything, but you need to do it because
if you don't, you're going to be left so
far behind. Um, when we talk about all
of these AI providers, you know, we were
talking before the break, you know, it
is a little bit like a horse race where
one gets ahead, one falls a bit back
behind, but I do think that ultimately
they're all investing. They've all got
good products. um we are continuing you
to invest and to make sure that our
teams are staying ahead and have access
to the best tools and the best
information and I think that that's what
a lot of people are focused on and what
is being seen as complacency is actually
no it's just the fact that I have now
had multiples come down in the tech
sector the mag seven though is
continuing to grow 2027 earnings growth
will be still above the rate of the
earnings growth of the S&P and I think
that the valuations is you coming down
as a result of the stocks coming down is
really starting to say to investors,
maybe I just step in here because that
valuation negative narrative that we've
been talking about throughout the most
early part of this year is really kind
of started to to lose some of its shine.
>> Does this mean we've also put to bed the
broadening out trade because it feels
like we're back in this environment
where yeah, we're not so sure about the
consumer, other things are going on,
what's happening with rates, but tech
will reign supreme regardless of the
environment. Does market leadership from
here start to narrow again? I think when
we talk about the breadth of the market,
we're talking about the MAG7 and we're
talking about the 493 other stocks. And
even the MAG7 is not just technology
spending. It's not just purely tech
stocks. And I think you you do have
consumer in there. You have Amazon for
example, which still is a big consumer
play. Um you have names like Meta,
advertising, still a consumer play. So I
don't think necessarily it's just tech
or not. The broadening trade has worked
this year and I do think it's going to
continue to work. I think that you know
part of the what is working has been
energy that has been the surprise but
it's been driven by something that was
also a surprise which is the
geopolitical tensions but I do think
that generally speaking the rest of the
market is still where you're going to
continue to find opportunities but you
know we do think that there are select
areas on the tech space where those
valuations have come in and we are not
concerned about tech spending being cut.
>> Katrina Dudley thank you so much for
being with us. Wonderful to see you.
Katrina Dudley of Franklin Templeton.
Thank you. I did want to bring this to
you. Uh we did get another post on Truth
Social by President Trump saying uh this
a whole civilization will die tonight,
never to be brought back again. I don't
want that to happen. But it probably
will. However, now that we have complete
and total regime change where different,
smarter, and less radicalized minds
prevail, maybe something revolutionarily
wonderful can happen. Who knows? We will
find out tonight. one of the most
important moments in the long and
complex history of the world. 47 years
of extortion, corruption, and death will
finally end. God bless the great people
of Iran. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us now for more. Tyler, how do you put
this into perspective with some of the
other posts that we've heard from the
president of late?
>> Well, Lisa, at this point, it appears
President Trump is not going to back
down or delay his threat to hit Iranian
civilian infrastructure by 800 PM
Eastern tonight. posting here on Truth
Social saying that I don't want that to
happen, but it probably will. But he
also, of course, added, "Who knows?" Of
course, the president has before delayed
and deferred his previous threats. And
just yesterday, he did say that he felt
that Iran was negotiating in good faith,
even citing that he thought that Iranian
officials were hampered in their
communication with the US over security
concerns, and that's why he previously
delayed this deadline before. Still, we
have to pair that with reports this
morning that Israel has already hit
Iranian infrastructure, dozens of sites,
according to reporting, as well as Axios
reporting that there have been military
targets hit on Carg Island. Pair that
with Fox News reporting that this
includes bunkers, radar station, and
ammunition storage, but that loading
docks were indeed spared that we haven't
seen uh the US move into that point
quite yet. So, it's going to be
something to watch and develop because
Lisa, as you well know, President Trump
said that today it depends on what Iran
does, whether or not the US is going to
wind up, wind down rather, or escalate
its operations later tonight.
>> Tyler, do you have any sense of what the
deliberative body is behind any decision
that the United States makes? Who's
involved? Exactly how much disagreement
or agreement there is in these
deliberations that are ongoing?
Well, at least publicly, Lisa, we've
seen a united front from the
administration, right? We are expecting
some updates later today from Secretary
Pete Hexath, also the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Dan Kaine. We know Secretary
Marco Rubio has also been closely
involved in all of these discussions.
There has been reporting that President
Trump has pushed for a perhaps more
aggressive stance when it comes to this,
considering that we know some of his
previous comments going back decades
when it comes to his feelings on taking
Car Island as just one example. At this
point though, the administration has uh
put out uh their negotiating team
yesterday. President Trump confirming
that in that includes Vice President JD
Vance along with of course his special
envoy Steve Wickoff and also Jared
Kusher. Many of whom these officials
were in the room with him yesterday in
the briefing room. Of course also the
CIA director as well. So there seems to
be a a lot of different uh angles here.
But even Lisa, yesterday I'll point out
during those remarks to reporters,
President Trump himself said that
sometimes there has been disagreement
with the strategy when it comes to Iran
among top military officials, but as of
now, they are showing of course that
united front.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much uh for
that work and for coming on so quickly.
Uh really honestly, Danny, looking at
this, how does anyone take this type of
post? a question of yes, this is amping
up the rhetoric, but saying a whole
civilization will die tonight, never to
be Brock Brock again. I don't want that
to happen, but it probably will.
>> But then at the same time saying that we
have complete and total regime shift
where you have smarter, different, and
less radicalized minds and pointing to
optimism that maybe there will be a
deal. something uh that General Robert
Walsh of Academy Securities pointed to
of a carrot and stick approach from the
president that maybe there's a method
behind the mixed messaging that you
claim there's a good chance of a deal
and that's deliberate to allow for a
lastminute deal that you have to have
that present in there while leaving the
extreme of the threats. Again though the
issue for markets is this kind of takes
off the table or seemingly at least
takes off the table any kind of walk
back. Yeah. In the markets what do
people do with this unclear. You are
seeing a little bit of a leg lower in
equity futures on the heel of the heels
of this. Up next, the morning calls plus
Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo as President
President Trump's threats weigh on
markets. That's coming up next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
It is deadline day. There's a question
of what happens after 8:00 p.m. Eastern.
A drum beat of headlines have been
taking this market lower throughout the
morning. Explosions were reported on
Carg Island. Then reportedly the US
hitting a number of military tied assets
on Car Island. And now President Trump
coming out with a post saying a whole
civilization will die tonight. I don't
want that to happen, but it probably
will. As these sort of drum beat of
headlines comes out, a sense of unease
falls over the markets. And you do see
that reflected in a riskoff feel. You're
seeing stocks lower by 610 of a percent
on the S&P futures. You're seeing a
greater decline across the board with
Russell and NASDAQ down about 8/10en of
a percent in the bond space. Yields
slightly higher on the back of an
increase in oil prices, particularly at
the long end of the yield curve, which
is interesting given the expectation
that the Fed could potentially move to a
more hawkish position in the oil futures
space. the June contract for both Brent
and WTI both inlecting up more than a
percent. Uh seeing now WTI that June
contract at near $100 dollar a barrel.
We are going to get back to that post
that we got from President Trump and
what the ramifications of that 800 p.m.
deadline are later today. Time now
though for the morning calls. First up,
Piper Sandler lowering its price target
in Apollo to $146, noting a difficult
start to 2026 with macro headwinds.
those shares lower by more than a
percent. Next up, Seapport Research
double downgrading LAR to sell from buy,
seeing rising concern of further slowing
in housing activity on the heels of
higher mortgage rates, slowing down a
further and already rather sluggish
industry. And finally, Morgan Stanley
down down bidding ARM Holdings to equal
weight, noting plans to sell its own
chips could pose risks, those shares
lower by more than 4%. Turning back to
our top story, stocks falling and oil
rising following an ominous threat from
President Donald Trump on Truth Social.
The president writing, "A whole
civilization will die tonight. I don't
want that to happen, but it probably
will." Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo joins
us now. Daryl, typically markets try to
strip out emotion. They try to look at
what the facts are on the ground. How do
you handle headlines that increasingly
have the potential to be uh potentially
history making but also could be nothing
and could be a viable dip? I mean, how
do you sort of assess this type of risk?
>> Yeah, I think it's a great question,
Lisa. It is the question of the day. So,
good morning. Um, I I think what you
want to look for in this kind of
environment is what we call high
convexity trades. And what do I mean by
that? I mean trades that, you know,
probably have some minimal downside to
them, but could have big upside if the
circumstances and the conditions flip.
That's part of the reason we just did a
Paris trade of downgrading energy and
upgrading technology because we see the
asymmetry there of the riskreward being
very very favorable in today's world. At
the same time, Darl, how do you
understand what's a haven at a time when
potentially we could be looking at
something that's either a massive
inflationary shock or potentially a
massive hit to growth as not just a
question of prices kill some of the
activity that people are opting to go
on, but actual shortages percolate into
some of the fastest growing areas in the
world.
Yeah, it's Lisa, it's a great point. I
mean, I think what you end up with is
you have the real supply demand shortage
that's probably going to persist for
quite some time. That's well documented
and well said around oil. Um, but if I
look at something like what I was just
referencing, I've got energy equities up
33%, tech down 7%, a differential of 40.
well documented that tech now trades at
the S&P forward 12-month um uh price
earnings multiple. So I'm paying no
premium for double the earnings growth,
right? The consensus 12 months forward
on the S&P is 18% earnings growth. Tech
is supposed to to um grow 35%. And
history tells you if you go back and
look at these past oil shocks, you want
to sell energy equities in advance of an
oil price peak. I can't tell you exactly
where the oil price peak is, but at $114
on WTI today, we'll take that riskreward
that you can deploy capital and sell
into that environment. History tells you
when oil becomes the story is when you
generally want to move away from energy
equities.
>> It feels contrarian at this moment,
Darl, with everyone upgrading their
earnings outlooks for energy and
everyone saying this is the place you
can hide out. So, it's interesting to
hear that. And does it also mean then so
much has been made of the halo trade,
the hard assets, low obsolescence? Have
we gone a little too far down that path
then? Is that overblown the
attractiveness of away from digital
assets and in to the hard assets?
>> I think so. Again, go back to the high
convexity. So when when we look at areas
where you know the downside is probably
somewhat muted, but the upside could be
real if that positioning to your point
changes. Um Danny, it's it's places like
I just mentioned, you know, energy
versus tech. Um gold, I think, is
another high convexity trade here,
right? Probably minimal downside from
4680. Uh but to us, we have a 12-month
gold target price at 5,900. That's 25%
from today's level. Um I would I would
put financials in that category, too.
You know, financial equities are down
9%. If you look at some of the alts
managers, down 30 to 50%. You know, a
lot of the bad news is priced in there.
If things do change even on the
intermediate basis and move higher,
you've got some big upside there
probably and you could put digital
assets in there as well. Digital assets
have come down meaningfully, call it 50%
uh in value. Um I I don't think the
downside is materially more there,
Danny. And so, you know, if the world
does change and conditions change and
positioning is skewed one way, people
have to reorient that positioning,
either covering short positions or
getting back long areas so that
convexity can really work in your favor
in portfolios when you use it wisely.
Daryl Croc of Wells Fargo, thank you so
much for being with us as we try to
parse through uh what is noise, what is
signal, we're getting a series of
headlines. uh not only uh President
Trump's true social post talking about
the potential carnage that could occur
tonight after 8:00 PM uh but JD Vance
speaking in Budapest as he uh delivers a
speech there saying that it the US is
confident it will get an Iranian
response reiterating that the deadline
is 8:00 p.m. saying that the Car Island
explosions and reported non military
focused strikes does not represent a
change in strategy. uh all of this
coming as the pressure continues to
rise. I do wonder also they're certainly
not outright saying this, but if in here
it might be a slight shifting of the
goalpost that JD Vance is saying we are
confident we'll get a response. He's not
saying what the response will be that it
will be an agreement to a ceasefire. But
is that enough for the US to say
negotiations are ongoing, therefore
we're not going through with the wipeout
of a civilization that the president
talked about in his truth social post.
Is that what's going on at the moment?
It's so hard to know with these
headlines coming very fast and again the
very extreme rhetoric coming from this
president.
>> If you are just joining us, setting up
for this morning, the expectation was
that there would be ongoing discussions
until 8:00 p.m. Eastern this evening. A
tone of optimism initially that has
faded as reports of strikes on Car
Island continue to come out. The latest
coming from the Wall Street Journal
saying that the US strike more than 50
military targets on Car Island. uh
talking about two officials that they
spoke to about that. Then JD Vance
saying that there is going to be no
change in strategy that that what you
saw in Car Island was not a change in
strategy. And then this post from
President Trump, a whole civilization
will die tonight. I don't want that to
happen, but it probably will. Full of
mixed messages nonetheless amping up the
rhetoric at the very least with a market
struggling to know what to do with this.
And the vice president also saying on
Iran that very shortly this war will
conclude. It's similar rhetoric. We've
heard from the president too, at least
on the equity side of thing things. It's
one that has continued to look at the
bright side. Again, will a deadline of
8:00 p.m. tonight change that? Yeah.
Right now, you are seeing a bit of a
fading of some of the risk appetite.
Equity futures have rolled over and our
near session lows as we get these
competing headlines dripping out through
the day. The real underperformance has
come from the Russell 2000 with yields
going higher on the heels of higher oil
prices. Do not miss what is coming up
next. New York Fed President John
Williams joining our own Michael McKe as
inflation concerns weigh on the path
ahead for interest rates. How does a
Federal Reserve deal with potentially a
two-sided risk? This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Coming back into another day of headline
roulette as we wait that 8:00 p.m. day
uh deadline that President Trump has set
to reach a deal with Iran. Ahead of
that, we are getting headlines that do
indicate a ratcheting up of tensions
with explosions in Carg Island as well
as of course threats of uh complete
destruction by the end of the day.
Should there not be some sort of
resolution, the US now confirming the
strikes on military assets in Carg
Island. Right now, markets fading from
some of the earlier optimism as the
session grows older. Still not exactly
dramatic declines and actually pairing
some of the earlier losses, down about a
third of a percent for the S&P. 10ear
yields now lower on the margins. 10-year
yields now 4.33%
and Brent crude higher by about a half a
percent, 11032.
We are getting some economic data. This
is sort of the drum beat of information
that we're going to be getting ahead of
poor PCE on Thursday and CPI on Friday.
Uh coming in weaker than expected with
durable goods. Although if we strip out
ex uh transportation, you actually have
a beat to that. Again, just sort of
feeding into this drum beat of
information that central bankers are
going to be considering when deciding
whether this is an asymmetric risk to
the downside or whether it's
increasingly symmetric, calling
potentially either a rate cut or a rate
hike as the next move. Let's turn to the
Fed central bankers awaiting the first
read of inflation since the start of the
war. Bloomberg's Michael McKe standing
by with a special guest. Mike,
>> good morning and we'd like to welcome
all of our viewers and listeners on
Bloomberg television and radio
worldwide. I'm here at the New York Fed
with the president of this regional
bank, John Williams. Thank you very much
for joining us this morning.
>> Well, welcome to the New York Fed.
>> We have so much news and headlines about
Iran today and it does affect people's
economic lives a lot. Uh, I know you
can't make a forecast, but what's the
best estimate that your people have been
able to come up with now for what this
is going to do to inflation and how
quickly?
>> Well, I think it will directly go into
headline inflation because energy prices
are important component of that. So, I
expect headline inflation to actually be
elevated, you know, in the middle of
this year. Of course, if if energy
prices come back down or stabilize, then
that won't add more to inflation. So,
right now, my view on inflation is we're
looking at inflation rate for the year
as a whole of something like 2 and 3/4%.
But, of course, it depends what happens
with energy prices.
>> What what could we get to in the
meantime? What's the sort of thinking
about uh where inflation on a numerical
basis could end up?
>> Well, I'm again, it's hard to predict
that
>> estimate, not not a forecast. Clearly we
can get into you know three above 3%
inflation. I think ex uh you know
markets expectations right now are for
CPI to be you know something like three
three and a quarter% over the next year.
Uh so but it really depends on what
happens both in terms of how high do
energy prices uh get but also how long
they stay high or and whether they come
back down. Personally, I'm also very
focused on what's happening with
underlying inflation, core inflation, uh
inflation expectations and other
indicators as well besides what's
happening to energy prices,
understanding the broader picture.
>> Well, what's happening with core
inflation?
>> Yeah, so there I think the story hasn't
changed very much. Clearly higher energy
prices does add a little bit to core
inflation. You think about airfares uh
which is part of core inflation uh but
is influenced by oil u you know fuel
prices. Uh so I expect that to add maybe
you know a tenth or two to core
inflation over the year the energy price
component. But we've seen tariff rates
come down. We've seen some other I think
uh more positive signs on underlying
inflation. So overall I'm kind of where
I've been for a while with core
inflation around 2 and a half% this
year. Uh
>> well how how long how high how fast
would inflation have to move to merit a
rate response? Well, I think really it
it does go back to kind of the the full
kind of set of factors influencing
inflation. And I'm going to bring up
tariffs because it is a big part of the
story so far about why core inflation
has been elevated. So I am watching you
know imported good prices looking at
core inflation inflation expectations
and then obviously on top of that what's
happening to food food and energy. Uh so
to my mind, monetary policy today is
really well positioned uh given where
all of those uh dynamics have been
playing out and well positioned to kind
of wait and and see on some of the
effects of uh you know what's happening
uh today. This isn't I'm not saying
we're just, you know, in some kind of we
can't act. I think this monetary policy
is exactly where it needs to be and then
we can we can respond if the situation
changes. Right now, I think that
monetary policy though is is pretty well
positioned. Uh, you know, given what
we've been seeing so far,
>> monetary policy is well positioned, but
what about the economy? What's the state
of the economy?
>> Yeah. Well, be you know, if you asked me
this a month or two ago, we would be
talking about the remarkable resilience
of the economy growing at 2% last year,
looking to grow even faster this year.
Clearly, with the conflict in the Middle
East, that changes that a bit. Um, so
I'm, you know, consumers, families are
going to be be paying higher fuel costs,
gas price, uh, with the gas price
increases. So I've been bringing down my
forecast for growth this year, probably
somewhere between two and two and a
half% for growth this year. An
unemployment rate probably staying
around where it is now, 4.3%. Um, and an
economy that's, you know, continuing to
grow, but roughly roughly at trend. Uh,
again driven by consumer uh, spending
and uh, investments, especially in in
AI. Well, you mentioned unemployment. Uh
you cut rates in the last year. We were
told basically to prop up the labor
market. Uh what is the state of the
labor market? Is is that accomplished?
>> Well, it's hard it's hard to read all
the tea leaves because it's pretty
complicated situation with the labor
market. We are seeing some, you know,
various uh uh kind of different signals.
Uh my if you look, my view is if you
look at the unemployment rate, it's
today at 4.3%. It's about where it was
in July. So, we've seen some, you know,
uh, stability there in terms of the
unemployment rate and in job openings
and some of the other indicators. So, I
feel like we've gotten the labor, we've
seen the labor market more much more
stable now. Definitely not a labor
market that's weakening based on the
economic indicators. That said, uh, if
you look at the surveys, including the
survey that we do and the conference
board survey, that's not how people are,
uh, you know, kind of feeling about the
labor market. Uh definitely we've seen a
continued process of people uh being
more pessimistic about the labor market.
Not about a recession or something, but
just a a view that this is a pretty low
hire low fire labor market. Uh and maybe
uh the you kind of the views aren't not
as strong as you would you would think
just looking at the the aggregate
payroll and unemployment data.
>> You're well positioned to do whatever
you need to do to help the economy, but
can monetary policy really do a lot in
these situations? What's the lag? J Pal
was talking about it could be a year
from now before it hits the economy
whatever you did.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So monetary policy
based on all the kind of historical
evidence takes about a year to have its
full effect on the economy and even
longer on inflation. So we always have
to be forward looking. We have to be
thinking about where's the economy going
to be rather than where it is today or
where it's been in the in the past. So
that means trying to, you know, uh,
think through where is inflation going
to be, you know, later this year, next
year, where's the economy going to be?
Now, I do, you know, I go back to kind
of the analysis we've done. I I do
expect underlying inflation eventually
later this year to start coming back
down because the the effects of the
tariffs on inflation will start to to
weigh. I do expect, you know, a
continuation of the kind of good, you
know, positive movement in underlying
inflation, but we'll have to watch. uh
is that does that continue and again
what happens in terms of the conflict uh
and its effects on inflation?
>> Uh we're worried about the Iran war.
We're worried about tariffs. Uh people
are worried about AI and you mentioned
the consumer sentiment uh numbers but
the economy has been fairly res
resilient. Uh why?
>> Well, I think I think u you America has
the best uh productivity, highest
productivity in the world. It's got the
highest among the highest productivity
growth. We are a remarkably resilient uh
innovative dynamic economy and I think
tech you know new technology uh is
making a big difference not just AI but
more broadly we've seen productivity
growth that's actually been you know
above par for the past six years. So I
think there's a there are some
fundamentals that are driving you know
solid gains in in productivity in real
incomes and you know demand for uh you
know demand uh to hire people. Uh but
there's you know there's these various
crossurrens you mentioned. So again last
year the story was the surprise was the
economy was so resilient despite the
uncertainty despite other you know
factors like the tariffs. this year it's
you know it's another test of that
resilience but investment in AI and data
centers is I think will continue to be
strong this year and for uh you know I
as long as the economy continues to grow
I think consumer spending will continue
to to be a a very positive factor
>> well along those lines uh what's your
read on average hourly earnings or wages
or whatever measure you want to use
average hourly earnings came down to
three and a half% what's the sweet spot
what's a level at which it won't be a
concern.
>> Yeah, I think we're at that level. Uh if
you look at, you know, uh all the
different indicators and now we have
some very good real-time indicators. We
have, you know, the standard uh uh
official statistics. I think pretty much
all of them are telling us that
compensation is is continuing to grow
real uh compensation is is growing in
and it's growing in a way that's
consistent with the productivity growth
we're seeing. So to my mind, the labor
market and you know, whether you look at
the unemployment rate or and you look at
wage growth, these are not factors uh
pushing up inflation at all. Uh so I
feel like we're we're at a good uh place
for that. Uh and I think that's
consistent with what we're seeing the
labor market in general.
>> You've been traveling around the state
uh of New York lately. What are you
hearing from CEOs for a long time? The
story has been we're just sitting there
because we don't know what's going to
happen. I think that story has changed a
bit. You know, the when you think about
how do you respond to uncertainty, the
first thing you probably do is you, you
know, pause any longer term plans around
hiring and investment and try to figure
out, you know, what to do. Uh, I think a
lot of CEOs have said, "Well, we're past
that. So, now we just have to navigate a
world with with higher uncertainty, make
the decisions that that make sense, make
the investments that make sense, and and
and you see you hear about that a lot
with uh AI and investments in AI." Uh,
so I think we're we're kind of in the
the the second stage, if you will, of
responding to uncertainty. It's really
about, well, okay, we need to make
decisions. Let's let's move uh forward.
And I think that's consistent with what
we're seeing. You know, we're seeing
positive job growth. We're seeing a
economy that continues to grow and
invest.
>> Well, are people talking at all about
cutting back?
>> Well, it's interesting on that. I mean
on going to the AI specific question, I
think most of the conversation that the
CEOs most of them are talking about is
really about making smart decisions,
hiring people with AI skills, uh not
hiring uh in areas that uh you know
maybe jobs we don't need because we
could use AI. So there's a lot of I
think thought going into that, but not
in terms of uh you know we need to cut
back uh our labor force. You don't you
of course you see this with the data
too. We're not seeing high high levels
at all of of initial claims for
unemployment or or layoffs. So, I think
it's a low higher low fire and low
unemployment economy. It's it's unusual
mix, but it's uh that's I think that's
what we're still seeing even today.
>> The next FOMC meeting at the end of the
month uh is J Pal's last as chair maybe.
Uh what's your understanding as the vice
chair of the open market committee about
what happens if Kevin Worsh is not
confirmed by then? Well, uh, Chair
Powell already, uh, spoke to that, uh,
recently in terms of the board of
governors. I'll speak to the FOMC, the
Federal Open Market Committee. I mean,
every January we have a vote about, you
know, selecting a chair and a vice
chair, and that's that vote is in is in
place for for throughout the year. Uh,
so there's there's no issue of
continuity. There's no issue of of
anything. You know, we're uh uh, you
know, that's all in place. Uh typically
we have this vote in January for the
chair of the FOMC uh and or if a new uh
chair is confirmed by the Senate then
that person uh becomes the chair of the
FOMC. But I would just highlight the
most important thing here is that you
know we're just focused on doing our
work. Uh there's no issue about
continuity or or things like that of the
FOMC. We're just you know doing what we
always do which is digging into all the
data. you know, trying to do our very
best to achieve our maximum employment
and price stability goals.
>> So basically, if worship is not
confirmed, you don't have to do
anything. You just
continue on.
>> Exactly. The FOMC just continue on. Now
Kevin has come in come out and uh said
that uh there's a lot of things he would
like to change and we won't go down the
whole laundry list but how effective do
you think with this FOMC with this board
can he be in affecting change in the
short run? Is are we looking at some
sort of massive change in the way things
are done or is this going to be a
process that takes place over years?
Well, at first, you know, you know,
Kevin Worsh understands the Federal
Reserve very well. He was a governor. I
knew him then. I think he has a a keen
understanding of our what our mission is
and and the importance of what we do.
You know, I can't speak for him and I
haven't uh you know, spoken to him
lately, but I do expect that when he uh
when he does get confirmed uh by the
Senate uh that he will share his views
and perspectives uh as he thinks about,
you know, what he wants to accomplish as
chair. And you know I've worked now with
in with four different chairs and uh and
many governors and very many presidents
and the most you know I think the most
common element of all this is when
people come into the Federal Reserve
they understand the importance of the
work we do the importance of the mission
to the American people and uh that's
that's exactly what I expect uh when
Kevin war uh rejoins if you will uh the
Federal Reserve. Now, uh, one of the
open questions is what happens to, uh,
Chairman Powell when he's no longer
chairman, but still a governor. Would
you like to see him stay on?
>> Well, that's a decision, uh, for, uh,
Chair Powell. Uh, and I I I don't have
any comment on that. I leave that to to
him.
>> Well, we'd like to thank you very much
for talking with us this morning, John
Williams, the president of the New York
Fed and vice chair of the Open Market
Committee. We'll send it back to you,
>> Michael McKe. Thank you so much. great
interview as we look to a question of
what the Fed does with a real kind of
stagflationary shock talking about a
potential risk to growth as uh Fed
President Williams talked about bringing
down the growth forecast to two and a
two and a half% so far this year but
also talking about an inflationary shock
that potentially could be something they
can just look through.
>> Yeah, exactly. Saying that the story of
underlying inflation hasn't changed. So
there you have someone from the Fed more
worried about what's happening to
growth. Kelsey Burrow was talking about
this idea that the next likely move is a
cut, but still there is this idea that
maybe there are more Beth Hammocks in
the world who are looking at two-sided
risks.
>> We'll parse through that coming up with
David Se of Namira with that focus on
inflation heading into data later this
week. And Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall will
join on President Trump's latest threat
to Iran in a truth social post from New
York. This is Bloomberg.
Right now, my view on inflation is we're
looking at inflation rate for the year
as a whole of something like 2 and 3/4%.
But of course it depends what happens
with energy prices both in terms of how
high do energy prices uh get but also
how long they stay high or and and
whether they come back down. I think
this monetary policy is exactly where it
needs to be and then we can we can
respond if the situation changes.
>> That was New York Fed President uh John
Williams dealing with the same headline
roulette the rest of the market is right
now. The market uh inlected lower ahead
of that 8 p.m. deadline later today
after a series of threats. President
Trump threatening to wipe out a
civilization should there be no
agreement, although he is still
optimistic. We heard from Vice President
JD Vance speaking in Budapest that the
war on Iran will conclude very shortly.
We're seeing lower S&P futures lower by
about a half a percent. Uh gold
fluctuating here. Oil steadily higher
throughout the morning. Brent crude at
$110.98.
The Federal Reserve looking to see how
higher oil prices are weighing on
inflation with CPI data due on Friday.
David Seif of Namira writing, "We expect
the Fed to largely look through the Iran
war. We think the Fed will cut rates
twice this year in September and
December under Wars's more dovish
leadership." David joins us now with a
really interesting framing suggesting
it's not necessarily a Fed that is
cutting because inflation is dis is is
is disseminating but rather because they
are politically pushed to do so.
>> Well, yeah, good morning and and uh
yeah, we we really think the Fed's
reaction function is going to change
once worsh comes in. And so, um, under
under the the Powell leadership, which
which we think has been fairly dovish in
its own right, uh, it doesn't look as
though the situation is setting itself
up for additional cuts. But, of course,
Powell is is not going to be Fed chair,
uh, for the rest of the year. Um, I
think the real question that comes into
this is this is a this is a Fed chair
transition unlike one we've seen in in
in almost 50 years, uh, really since
Vulkar came in and fundamentally changed
what the reaction function was. So, uh,
uh, uh, Worsh is is going to come in and
presumably we we expect want to be
significantly more doubbish, uh, than
than Powell has been. And the question
is, does he have the votes to get
through what he wants? You know, the
FOMC is a voting, uh, committee. And
since since the time of Vulkar, really
more than 45 years ago, it's been a
deacto dictatorship from the Fed chair.
What the Fed chair wants, the Fed chair
has gotten. Uh I suspect and we suspect
at Namora that that Worsh is going to
want even more than two cuts. Uh we also
suspect that the core of the committee
uh does not want uh to cut probably even
that much. So where is that going to end
up? Um if the core of the committee
just, you know, puts its foot down and
says that's it. Um we're not going to
give you seven votes, then uh then maybe
we won't even get those two cuts. And if
Worsh is able to really convince them
and and push them into doing that, we
could even get more. Uh but again, you
know, the the the key thing is that our
our our view is based on the Fed cutting
because we think its reaction function
is going to change, not because we think
inflation is coming back to target or
growth is going to weaken.
>> What does that mean for inflation then?
If we're cutting for those reasons and
an inflation that's been above the Fed's
2% target for the past consistent 60
months in a row.
>> Yeah. I mean that we look like we're
going to have a sixth consecutive year
of above 2% above target inflation. Uh I
think that that what it really the key
thing here is how much does the
committee ultimately show independence.
Um I think that that you know if the
committee allows say two cuts to go
through um even if those don't
necessarily seem appropriate to many
market participants but then says okay
now we're done. now we're not going to
give you uh chair wars the votes anymore
uh to get this done. I actually think
that shows a lot of credibility. You
know there there are on paper guard
rails at the Fed that have not been used
or been needed to be used in in uh
almost five decades. Uh if those if
those are seen as still functioning, I
think the market will actually take that
pretty kindly. They say, "Okay, well
maybe you shouldn't have cut that 50
bips, but you're not cutting 200 bips,
and that's great. Um, if those
guardrails don't work, then I think that
that's uh perhaps much more dire for for
inflation expectations going forward.
>> There's news uh coming out this morning
that Delta Airlines is increasing its
price tag for checked bags by $10 to $50
depending on the bag. This follows what
United has done, what JetBlue has done
in terms of trying to offset the
increase in oil prices. How much do you
think people are underestimating just
how inflationary this oil price increase
actually will be?
>> I I think I think there's a pretty good
estimation of it. Um so I think airline
fairs and the associated fees are
actually one of the very few uh key ways
in which uh oil price increases
translates into core inflation which is
what the Fed targets. Um and and we and
the consensus do not see March core
inflation being all that much higher
than it was in in February. Headline
inflation is a totally different story.
And and of course consumers do not
really care about whether it's
classified as headline or core. So we
see a full percent month overmonth
increase in in headline inflation for uh
March. And that is driven almost
entirely by what we think was a a close
to 23% month-over-month increase in
gasoline prices. We still haven't seen
any real impact on food prices, nor do
we expect to see it in in the March CPI.
So, uh, obviously gas prices could keep
going higher, but then there's the other
leg. If food prices start to move higher
as well, which seems plausible, although
we haven't seen it yet, then headline
inflation could could continue to get
much and much higher. Uh, but when it
comes to core inflation, we don't
actually think these increases in in in
oil prices will have all that big of an
effect on things. And it's really uh the
crux of why we think the Fed uh will and
probably should look through uh the
higher oil prices.
>> David Se, thank you so much for being
here with us today. David Se of Namira
here with us in New York. What a morning
it has been. Head the focus completely
on that 8:00 p.m. deadline. A real lack
of certainty about exactly how to read
some of the headlines that we've gotten
throughout the morning. Danny, questions
about strikes potentially on Car Island.
And then of course the true social post
from the president.
>> The president warning that a whole
civilization will die tonight but also
goes on to say that there has been a
total regime shift and that he is
speaking with maybe a different and more
rational regime. So it is this carrot
and stick this mixed message having very
extreme language of the kind of
destruction that he will promise if
8mm's deadline is not met but then some
optimism too which we also heard from
the vice president saying that very
shortly this war will conclude. In the
meantime, uh stocks uh dipping slightly
in early trading as they try to get
their head around exactly what to pay
attention to. Coming up tomorrow, we've
got Julian Emanuel of Evercore ISI, Alex
Alman of Barclays, Emily Roland of John
Hancock Investment Management, and Tom
Porceli of Wells Fargo. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.